Weeks of provocative and outlandish behavior have hurt Donald J. Trump’s standing in two new national polls of registered voters, which showed the presumptive Republican presidential nominee falling further behind Hillary Clinton. A Washington   News survey had Mrs. Clinton with a   lead: 51 percent to 39 percent. A Wall Street   News poll had Mrs. Clinton with a smaller advantage of five percentage points. Both polls, released on Sunday, showed Mr. Trump in worse shape than he had been a month ago, as voters in the latest polls expressed doubts about his preparedness and qualifications to lead the nation. Nearly two in three Americans say they think Mr. Trump is unqualified to be president and are anxious about the idea of him in the White House, the   poll found. In contrast, 61 percent think Mrs. Clinton is qualified. Mr. Trump is coming off two particularly damaging weeks for his campaign  —   a period in which he personally attacked a   judge hearing a lawsuit against Trump University, gloated about predicting attacks like the Orlando massacre that left 49 dead, and fired his embattled campaign manager. Despite his woes, not all the results of the new polls were heartening for Mrs. Clinton. The   survey found that her lead essentially disappears when candidates from the Green Party and Libertarian Party are included. She essentially tied Mr. Trump, with 39 percent to his 38 percent. Together,   candidates grabbed 16 percent of the support. Senior aides to both candidates spoke on Sunday morning news shows, and their words left little doubt about the intensity that the race is taking on now that the nominating fights have ended. Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, said on Fox News Sunday, “Donald Trump is probably one of the most reckless, unfit candidates to ever seek the presidency. ” Mrs. Clinton, he said, is “probably one of the most prepared. ” Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign chairman, insisted that he and Mr. Trump had built an operation that was able to take on Mrs. Clinton, addressing concerns from Republicans that their infrastructure is inadequate. “Our campaign is organized,” Mr. Manafort told NBC’s “Meet the Press. ” ”We’re ready, we’re going to have a good convention, and we’re confident that we are not behind the Clinton campaign,” Mr. Manafort added.