Three months before the November election, voters in New Hampshire, long one of the purple swing states in presidential elections, clearly favor Hillary Clinton over Donald J. Trump, according to a new poll. And another poll shows Mrs. Clinton holding a narrower lead in Florida. New Hampshire voters who either prefer or lean toward Mrs. Clinton outnumber those who prefer or lean toward Mr. Trump by 47 percent to 32 percent, according to the poll, conducted for WBUR, an NPR station in Boston, by the MassInc Polling Group. Gary Johnson, a Libertarian, was favored by 8 percent. Mrs. Clinton’s standing represents a remarkable turnaround for a candidate who lost New Hampshire’s Democratic primary in February. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont clobbered her, 60 percent to 38 percent. But against Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton does much better. While 48 percent say she is fit to be president, only 31 percent say that of Mr. Trump. Nationally, according to a new Fox News poll, Mrs. Clinton holds a   lead over Mr. Trump. Still, even in New Hampshire, it is not all smooth sailing for her: 46 percent of voters there say Mrs. Clinton is not fit to be president, and 29 percent think she should be sent to prison for her use of a personal email server while she was secretary of state. But 56 percent of New Hampshire voters say she came out of her convention a stronger candidate, and only 39 percent said the same of Mr. Trump. Perhaps most important, 63 percent say Mr. Trump is not fit to be president. The survey, of 609 likely voters, was conducted from July 29 to Aug. 1 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. Mrs. Clinton is also leading at this juncture in Florida, a major swing state that would be crucial to any Trump strategy for winning nationwide. Mrs. Clinton leads Mr. Trump in Florida by six percentage points, 48 percent to 42 percent, according to a poll released Thursday by Suffolk University in Boston. In a   race, her lead narrows to 43 percent over 39 percent for Mr. Trump Mr. Johnson wins 4 percent of the vote, and Jill Stein, the Green Party nominee, wins 3 percent.