Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos  —   and anything else that strikes them as intriguing  —   in the Playlist. You can listen to this playlist on Spotify here. Like this format? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes. com. Every time Dad gets control of the Sonos, he’s always trying to tell us something. Like, in the mornings, there’s this persistent thrum of good vibes. Energy so positive it makes caffeine seem like codeine. The Courtney Barnett song with the least anxiety! Nina    with Aretha! That bluesy Sara Bareilles song with the hiccupping piano! Literally “Good Vibrations!” He’ll play a couple of rap songs with cursing in them  —   LOL  —   but nothing with any real teeth. Not even Kendrick! (Weirdly, no gospel, though.) Every day, it’s like this: A reminder to face the world with, like, an open heart. It’s no wonder then that, at night, all dad wants to do is chill. I mean, do you hear those songs? I mean, not even the whole song  —   just the first few seconds of throbby   synths on that Chrisette Michele song! Or that Corinne Bailey Rae one, the one literally called “Green Aphrodisiac. ” When D’Angelo’s “Lady” comes on, it’s almost as if Dad is trolling us, but really what he’s saying is that it’s time, after a day of relentless optimism in the face of national and international trauma, for grown folks to relax. Yes, Dad. We hear you. JON CARAMANICA The next album by Green Day  —   “Revolution Radio,” due on Oct. 7  —   returns the band to charged sociopolitical footing, and to a froth of righteous insurgence. You wouldn’t have to hear any music to recognize that this is the best possible news for Green Day, which has been mostly quiet over the last few years, and most recently released an album (three of them, actually) in 2012. “Bang Bang,” the first single from “Revolution Radio,” has all the snarl and pep you could want, mobilizing classic punk strategies with ruthless pop efficiency. But its lyrical premise is pointed and potent: Billie Joe Armstrong wrote the song in the voice of a delusional young mass shooter, dreaming of glory and infamy: It’s an unsettling chorus to picture on an arena stage, with thousands of fans belting along. But unsettling is what Mr. Armstrong wants here, and the furiously catchy qualities of the tune help his cause. NATE CHINEN No one in pop walks tightropes more elegantly than Chance the Rapper. And in this   song, which is really the soundtrack for a short film advertising Nike and the United States Olympic men’s and women’s basketball teams, he manages to be a rapper, singer and   poet both creatively progressive and amenably corporate and simultaneously politically radical and earnestly patriotic. He’s a gold medalist in playing to the crowds  —   all of them. J. C. Thursday night the Robert Glasper Experiment played a brief set on its home turf, as part of the BRIC Celebrate Brooklyn! Festival in Prospect Park. From the stage, Mr. Glasper announced that the band’s new studio album, “ArtScience,” is due on Sept. 16. A lead single, “Find You,” gives some hint as to the band’s new coordinates: less simmering RB, more   fusion. It features the bassist Derrick Hodge on lead vocals, singing a romantic entreaty through light electronic processing, while the band hurtles through several variations on a groove. A guest guitar solo by Michael Severson leaves no doubt as to the role that   virtuosity can play here. And after the track seems to have wound down, there’s a coda with a   by Mr. Glasper’s young son, Riley, who rails against police injustice: “We stand up for freedom. ” N. C. The splashiest debut in   this week came from the female foursome Blackpink  —   Jennie, Lisa, Jisoo and Rosé  —   who appear   to fill the hole left by the hiatus of pioneering girl group (and labelmates, on YG Entertainment) 2NE1. Of Blackpink’s first two singles, the better one is “Whistle,” which uses the Ying Yang Twins’s “Wait (The Whisper Song)” as a   point for an elastic   thumper. Like 2NE1, Blackpink features singers and rappers  —   Lisa’s rapping is the highlight here  —   and a sleek blend of exuberance and sass. J. C. To date, the Scranton, Pa. punk outfit the Menzingers have been happiest as brawlers  —   thoughtful brawlers, but rowdy all the same. The new single “Lookers” feels like a sore muscle: solid at the core, but tender at the edges. The lead singer Greg Barnett sings of the king he once was  —   “Lost in a picture   way my body used to behave”  —   with both longing and residual verve. (And he applies a heavy patina of geographically specific   nostalgia  —   “Jersey girls are always total   Julie from the Wonder   I still wonder where you are”  —   that verges on Gaslight Anthem territory.) For a band prone to upheaval, this song about the fading of the light is surprisingly meditative. Mr. Barnett never sounds rueful, only grateful for the shot he once had, and maybe missed. J. C. The   and jazz bassist Esperanza Spalding has just announced a tour, kicking off this weekend at the Richmond Jazz Festival and winding across North and South America through the fall. She’s drawing from “Emily’s D+Evolution,” the album she released in the spring, signaling a firm alignment with funk, rock and soul. One of the best songs on the album is “Unconditional Love,” a   ballad in which Ms. Spalding questions the need for so much turmoil in a relationship, calling for something simpler and truer. A handsome new video for the song (directed by Calmatic, who has mainly worked with   artists) shows Ms. Spalding backstage at a concert venue, being primped for a performance. Then comes a sudden transformation: She’s Emily, her childlike alter ego, in street clothes and a different hairdo. Liberated, she wanders, dances and finds her romantic foil, in a series of scenes that could either be a figment of imagination or as real as it gets. N. C. The jazz pianist Fred Hersch rarely sounds better than he does at the Village Vanguard, where he’ll be in residence with his trio next week. He has an inspired new album, “Sunday at the Vanguard,” recorded in the spring, on the final night of his most recent engagement there. “Blackwing Palomino” is one of its five original compositions, a moseying tune that conveys intensity of purpose without ever breaking a sweat. It’s a strong argument for Mr. Hersch’s acutely sensitive bond with the bassist John Hébert and the drummer Eric McPherson, who have constituted his trio for the better part of a decade. Placed alongside the other originals, a songbook standard (“A Cockeyed Optimist”) a Beatles tune (“For No One”) and one by Thelonious Monk (“We See”) it becomes part of a representative picture of Mr. Hersch’s nightclub set on a good night. That’s ample reason to seek out the album, as well as a reminder to book a reservation at the club. N. C.