MANILA  —   The head of the Thai junta urged his countrymen on Friday to have patience while investigators determine who was behind a wave of deadly bombings in Thailand this week. Gen. Prayuth   the junta chief and prime minister, hinted that the perpetrators were “bad people” opposed to a new Constitution that was approved by voters on Sunday in a nationwide referendum. “There are still bad people, and they have been acting since before the referendum,” he said in an address to the nation. The bombings in five provinces on Thursday and Friday, including in Phuket and Hua Hin, areas popular with tourists, killed four people and wounded dozens. The authorities said arson attacks elsewhere in the country appeared to be related. Analysts said the bombings did not appear to be aimed at killing many, but rather at damaging the tourism industry, a bright spot in Thailand’s economy. “Whatever the motives are, the explosions and arson attacks undermine the junta’s claim that the   situation would be stable,” said Sunai Phasuk, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch. “These attacks create effects that discredit the authorities, terrorize the public and harm the   economy. ” The police have portrayed the attacks as “local sabotage,” not as terrorism. The timing and location of the attacks carried strong political symbolism. The bombings occurred as people prepared to celebrate the birthday of Queen Sirikit on Friday, which is considered Mother’s Day in Thailand. Four bombs struck the royal residential town of Hua Hin, about 125 miles from Bangkok. The police there detained two men for questioning on Friday in connection with the attacks, Reuters reported. The   Constitution will diminish the influence of political parties and give greater power to the military even after it returns the government to civilian control. The junta ensured its victory by preventing opponents from campaigning against it. Murray Hiebert, an expert on Southeast Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, noted the military’s suspicion that the attacks had been carried out by people disgruntled over the vote. The bombings were “clearly coordinated but obviously intended to create fear and anxiety rather than massive damage and deaths and injuries,” he said. Last year, a bombing in Bangkok killed 20, most of them tourists from China. Thai officials attributed the bombing to Uighur militants angry over the return of more than 100 Uighurs to China. General Prayuth, who has led the junta since a 2014 coup ousted a civilian government, said this week’s bombings “hurt the hearts” of the Thai people. “Why now, when the country is getting better, the economy is getting better, and tourism is getting better?” he said. “We have to ask why, and who did it. ”