Here are the top 10 comments of the week on our digital platforms, as selected by our readers and the journalists who moderate nearly every comment. 1. Simone Biles, Aly Raisman and the rest of the USA gymnastics team represent what is best about America: a place where talent, hard work, diversity, and mutual respect lead to the kind of achievement that all of can proudly share with each other.  —   Dylan111 in New Haven, reacting to an article about the gymnast Simone Biles winning the gold medal in the women’s   competition Thursday. Her teammate Aly Raisman won the silver. Tuesday night, the United States team of five won gold in the team competition. This comment had more than 50 reader recommendations. 2. The anthem is a series of questions: Can you see? Does that banner yet wave? The U. S. national anthem is ideally suited to feature “unstable, questioning chords. ” And to my ears, the use of the relative minor chords doesn’t necessarily sound “sad” I think it’s also accurate to say those moments sound “noble” or “stately” or “stoic. ” I suspect that people are reacting to the instrumentation as much as the harmonization  —   this version has some reflective strings instead of      bass drums and brass. There’s nothing wrong with this arrangement, unless you insist that the national anthem be as bombastic and aggressive as possible, every time you hear it.  —   Brian T. in Lexington, Ky. reacting to an article about the version of the national anthem that is played when a United States athlete wins a gold medal at the Rio Olympics, which some listeners say sounds “sad” because of the preponderance of minor chords in the arrangement. This comment received more than 110 reader recommendations. 3. [Michael] Phelps was impressive tonight but Simone’s historic victory is so much more meaningful and will go a long way in inspiring the next generation, especially those who are   in swimming.  —   Nancy Rhee on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about Simone Manuel, who tied for the gold medal in the women’s   freestyle, becoming the first   woman to win an individual swimming medal in the Olympics. This comment received more than 35 likes.  4. I’m glad Lilly won, but this is one rude woman. I heard her on NPR this morning, and she’s got the empathy of a birdbath. Is she not aware the doping was state sponsored? Does she have any idea what it would be like to go against Putin  his lackeys? Did her opponent not suffer enough during her ban and during the introduction to the race? We’re all against doping, but forgiveness and moving on  —   with adequate testing  —   are much nobler traits than what I saw last night.  —   ECF1 in New York, reacting to an article about the open criticism of athletes who have served doping suspensions by their opponents at the Rio Games. Lilly King, the American who won the women’s   breaststroke Monday, wagged a finger at Yulia Efimova of Russia, who served a suspension for a banned substance and contested another before competing at these Olympics.  5. It’s a huge historic day for our little island nation of Fiji. We are so very proud of our players and the coaching staff. Our Fiji rugby team made us so happy today. We will never forget. Vinaka Boys. ..Go Fiji Go!  —   Altaf Ali on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about Fiji’s   gold medal Thursday, in rugby sevens. Fiji defeated Britain,  .  6. What’s so weird? A fair number of women marry their coaches. They spend all their time training and no life outside of it. Doctors marry nurses and other doctors. Lawyers marry other lawyers. We say nothing. Now, we have an opinion? Who are we to judge?  —   Shelley Pasternak on The Times’s Facebook page, responding to an article about the Hungarian swimmer Katinka Hosszu, whose relationship with her   has raised eyebrows in and out of the pool at the Olympics. Ms. Hosszu has won three gold medals so far at the Rio Games. This comment received more than 120 likes. 7. I’m sorry, but I just can’t take out the violins. However, I do hope, with all my heart that she remembers those “lean” years if she’s elected when she makes decisions that affect the 90 percent of Americans who are struggling. I have my doubts. Contrary to this story, my rent in NYC in 1980 was $285 a month, and I still went to sleep at night worrying how I would make it. I was waitressing and putting myself through college. Much of how I see the world and the struggles of the people around me in Myanmar and in the U. S. go back to that time. We can only hope Hillary remembers something somewhat comparable. Unfortunately, “Let them eat cake” too often comes to mind. I still miss that guy from Brooklyn, the child of immigrant parents, who truly started out with nothing and never forgot it.  —   Far From Home in Yangon, Myanmar, reacting to an article about Hillary Clinton’s competing desires both to serve the public in government and to make money.  8. I think, as I have thought for many years, that Hillary is an incredible woman and leader. But seeing this slice of her personality . .. serves as a nice counterbalance to the prevailing political narrative that she is cold and calculating. I understand that 30 years in public life takes a toll, but years from now I think we’ll look back and there will be a clear delineation between the expectations for men versus women in public life  —   and the very, very different paths that she and her husband took to get into office as well as what they did once they were there.  —   Laura C. in Philadelphia. 9. Were it not for his religious fanaticism, I would vote for Pence in a heartbeat. In January I will become a full Canadian citizen with the full intention of renouncing the U. S. one that, quite frankly, embarrasses me. I’m 71 and have lived in Nova Scotia since 2010. While this would be my last chance to vote in a U. S. election, I choose to pass.  —   Robert Coane, reacting to an opinion article by Matt Latimer, a former speechwriter for George W. Bush. The article asks the Republican   nominee, Gov. Mike Pence, to persuade Donald J. Trump to withdraw from the presidential race. 10. Trump wants to cut taxes to spark an economic recovery, and specifically drop the corporate tax rate to 15% which would make us   with ALL industrialized nations and likely would put an end to corporate inversions. Leave the country isolated from the world? In point of fact, no  —   our corporate taxes are among the very highest in the industrialized world, make us uncompetitive and incentivize our companies to bolt our regulation is stifling expansion and   and free trade policies have played their role, along with offshoring and automation, in   our middle classes. And the rest of “the world” is hardly healthy  —   their tax and regulatory frameworks have a great deal to do with their sorry state. But I can understand the concern: whenever Trump talks sense rather than erupting over some sleight, his numbers go up.  —   Richard Luettgen in New Jersey, reacting to an editorial about Mr. Trump’s economic plan.  This comment received over 115 reader responses.