RIO DE JANEIRO  —   A thousand metaphysical miles from the   Olympic zone, a couple of activists and I entered the Favela do Mandela, a ramshackle collection of     buildings. We walked a narrow road ringed by   young men, which led to a narrower one, which led to a    alleyway. We found the home of    Marie Auxiliadora. With blond hair brushed back, she was a diminutive eruption of joy. She apologized for her modest home, scrubbed and packed with crucifixes and plastic flowers and pastel curtains. She wore a sun dress and pink  . Although morning gunfire had earlier forced her to hide in her bedroom, she insisted hers had been a good life. She noted she had four beautiful adult children, thank God. On her television, we watched demonstrators protest the presence of the Olympic torch on the day before the Olympics started. She pursed her lips and put her hands over her chest. “I am so upset,” she said. Her eyes turned  . “I have not gotten my retirement check for a month. Our hospitals and schools are broken. Shooting every day, and they spend all of our money on this Olympics. “The rich play, and we die. ” Seen from the northern and western precincts of Rio de Janeiro, which sprawl inland from the green Tijuca forest and the coastal mountain spine, the Olympics inhabit a foreign and wealthy world. In two days of wandering through favelas and   neighborhoods, I found Olympic excitement an often extinguished fire. Graffiti and signs draped across walls by labor activists document the Games’ huge cost to a wounded city. Olympic torchbearers jogged into several   neighborhoods and left sprinting, chased by angry residents. Outrage is not difficult to understand. Billionaire developers and media magnates have made a fortune off the Olympics bribe and corruption investigations arising from these Games are a growth industry, with construction companies and hundreds of congressional deputies potentially in the dock. An extremely expensive subway was built to run the length of this city’s    south coast from Copacabana to the Olympic site. A forest of towers to house athletes rose on publicly owned land afterward, the developer will turn these into luxury housing. On the route from the international airport to the south shore, Olympic organizers put up colorful walls so that visitors could not see the favelas. The International Olympic Committee’s chieftain, Thomas Bach, proclaimed the Rio Games a grand success last week. I wondered at the quality of his eyes. To write of pain is to take nothing from the Brazilians, who are gracious hosts and exuberant fans, crowding the waterfront of Copacabana for beach volleyball. Grand athletic achievement is inspiring, and these athletes, the world’s greatest, deserve applause. But the practiced I. O. C. shakedown of cities, the demands that local officials compete to construct obscenely expensive stadiums and news media centers and to guarantee that tourist zones have been swept of the desperate, has rarely looked more problematic. Rio is all but bankrupt. Teachers have gone months without pay. Retirees are months behind on pension checks. University professors gather to mop floors and empty overflowing garbage cans. I talked to a hospital administrator in a northern neighborhood who asked that I not use his name for fear he might lose his job. Officials had instructed him, he said, to reserve beds in overcrowded wards and to put aside    medicines, such as blood pressure pills, for Olympic tourists. His hospital received a new ambulance to serve the Olympics. I traveled this day in the company of Anderson Franca, a sturdy, bearded activist, writer and researcher, and his wife, Suelen Masiero. Anderson sees a bill of lading for decades of neglect come due. “In a way, the Olympics are to be congratulated,” he says. “The contradictions of this city are emerging faster and more dramatically. ” Later, we will put the question of the Olympics to Geovane Prince, a muscular, tattooed photographer in the Mandela favela. He has created a thriving studio and travels about the city. He shakes his head before I get the question out. “All the corruption, the suffering, there is too much pain,” he says. “We protest. To keep building giant arenas in the wealthy zone? We are sick of investing in this. ” Violence is a caldron still boiling and cannot be separated from this Olympic antipathy. In advance of the 2014 World Cup and now the Olympics, the police and the military pushed at the point of semiautomatic rifles and armored cars into hundreds of favelas in brutal pacification campaigns. Homicides dropped significantly but spiked again this year. New York City recorded 350 murders in 2015. Rio de Janeiro, a state with roughly double the population of New York City, recorded 461 murders in April 2016 alone. The police were responsible for   of all murders in Rio last year, according to Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. At 8:30 a. m. last week, we traveled toward the Complexo do Alemão favela, which sprawls across four hills. We stopped at a traffic light.    . I tilted my head it sounded like firecrackers, except not really. The driver in the car next to ours rolled his eyes. The paramilitaries and drug gangs, he said through his open window, shoot early this morning. “You see that hill?” Franca, the activist and my guide this day, said as he pointed toward a green mountain ridge. Tumbledown homes climbed its slopes azure skies rose above. Those were the Mercy Hills. “They found a mass grave with dozens of bodies. No names. ” I talked later to a woman who owned a modest grocery store on another hillside in this favela. She cradled her baby granddaughter. “No one can even get together to watch a game,” she said. “The occupation is too dangerous. ” Hers was an often repeated observation. Residents want peace, but they harbor no particular rooting interest in the army or the drug gangs or the paramilitaries composed of retired cops: All armies are lethal. We scrambled up a hardscrabble path to the new police precinct that commands the hill like a medieval castle keep. Inside, three police officers in body armor nodded warily. They pointed to one, two, three bullet holes in the glass windows of the precinct, each the size of a   ball the police attack, and the gangs counterattack. The precinct wall is dominated by a painting of a knight kneeling and holding his sword, accompanied by these words: “You may die, but if you don’t fight, you’re already dead. ” The precinct commander walked in, a semiautomatic rifle strapped to his chest. “You should not stay here  —   go back to the Olympics,” he said. “Shooting is anytime. ” Officials cut several bus lines that run north to south during the Olympics, in hope of keeping gangs from invading the tourist zones of Copacabana and Ipanema and the central business district. Many tens of thousands of   Cariocas, as natives of Rio are known, spend two and a half to three hours commuting to distant jobs, journeys made far more arduous during the Games. Anderson’s mother lives in a favela. She is in her ninth decade and has never visited the white sand beaches of Copacabana and Ipanema. The city’s public safety director talks about the disaster that could await when the Olympics end and soldiers withdraw from the tourist zones. The next day, I talked with Carla Maria Avesani, a young professor at the Rio de Janeiro state university. She has a Ph. D. and runs a nutrition institute at the University of Rio de Janeiro. She serves on the board of a prestigious journal and writes for an international audience of academics. She studies how changes in diet help poor patients on dialysis and those with heart problems. It was her dream to work at a public university with a mission. Now she and her fellow professors pool their Brazilian reais to buy computers and paper towels, and to fix doors. They try to figure out what to do about the broken elevator. Their university is broke, its pockets turned out. She lives in an    neighborhood, with good restaurants and that Mediterranean climate. The evening atmosphere, with young couples hand in hand, calls to mind Rome, except with enormous rock faces nearby and an ocean lapping at your feet. She watched the opening ceremony, all the brilliant choreographies, and read her friends’ proud posts on Facebook. She could not join them. “It was a beautiful party we Brazilians do wonderful parties,” Avesani said. “But to see the amount of money spent for stupid stadiums, I don’t want to celebrate when the state is broke and hospitals are closing and the poor are dying by the thousands. ” She paused. “It’s nice to see so many foreigners, and I want you to be happy. I want to be happy. ” She sighed. “I would be happiest now if the world sees how we are living. I feel absolutely offended by these Olympics. ”