João Havelange, the Brazilian businessman who built soccer into a   international enterprise over his 24 years as the autocratic head of the sport’s world governing body but who was later implicated in a scandal involving millions of dollars in kickbacks, died on Tuesday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 100. Soccer’s world governing body, known by the acronym FIFA, after its French name, confirmed his death, at Samaritano Hospital in Rio. He had been hospitalized several times in recent years and was treated for pneumonia last month. When he was elected in 1974 as FIFA’s first   president, the organization, based in Zurich, had existed for 70 years. It had a   staff, however, and meager funds with which to preside over the World Cup, a prodigious undertaking held every four years. When Mr. Havelange completed his sixth and final term in 1998, he estimated that FIFA had $4 billion in its treasury and that international soccer had become a $    international industry. Mr. Havelange was also the   member of the International Olympic Committee when he resigned in December 2011 after 48 years, citing health reasons. He departed shortly before the I. O. C. ’s executive board was scheduled to issue findings on reports by the BBC that Mr. Havelange had taken a large kickback from a World Cup marketing firm based in Switzerland when he was nearing the end of his final term as FIFA president. Mr. Havelange could have been suspended or expelled from the I. O. C. if it had substantiated the charges, but the case against him, investigated by the I. O. C. ’s ethics committee, was closed on his resignation. In July 2012, a report by a Swiss prosecutor that had been kept secret for two years was released. The prosecutor found that Mr. Havelange had received about $1 million in 1997 from the Swiss company ISL in connection with its being awarded World Cup marketing and broadcast rights. The firm had collapsed in 2001, leading to a criminal investigation. The prosecutor also found that Ricardo Teixeira, Mr. Havelange’s    at the time, had received at least $13 million in kickbacks from ISL in the 1990s. Mr. Teixeira resigned in March 2012 as head of Brazil’s soccer federation and of the organizing committee for the 2014 World Cup, which was held in Brazil, and gave up his FIFA executive committee position, citing health and personal considerations. FIFA, Mr. Havelange and Mr. Teixeira had reached a settlement in 2010 to end the Swiss criminal investigation by making partial restitution. The settlement stipulated that neither man would be identified in connection with the case, but the text of the report was released after Switzerland’s Supreme Court ruled in favor of journalists challenging its suppression. Mr. Havelange’s wife, Anna Maria, said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal in May 2015 that her husband was innocent of any crimes. “He loved what he did, was a fantastic administrator who raised FIFA up from nothing,” she said. In what was virtually   rule over FIFA, Mr. Havelange garnered immense revenue for soccer from worldwide television rights and corporate sponsorships, turning the world’s most popular sport into an economic powerhouse. Mr. Havelange doubled the number of nations participating in the World Cup, introduced a Women’s World Cup and won a spot for women’s soccer in the Olympics. At a party in 1998, when he was about to step down as FIFA’s ruler, Mr. Havelange was asked whether he considered himself the world’s most powerful man. “I’ve been to Russia twice, invited by President Yeltsin,” Time magazine quoted him as saying, referring to Boris N. Yeltsin, the Russian leader at the time. “In Italy, I saw Pope John Paul II three times. When I go to Saudi Arabia, King Fahd welcomes me in splendid fashion. Do you think a head of state will spare that much time for just anyone? That’s respect. They’ve got their power, and I’ve got mine: the power of football, which is the greatest power there is. ”   Faustin Godefroid de Havelange was born on May 8, 1916, in Rio de Janeiro, the son of a   businessman. He was a member of the Brazilian swim team at the 1936 Berlin Olympics, obtained a law degree and then grew wealthy with business interests that included senior positions with insurance, steel and transport companies. He returned to the Olympics at the 1952 Helsinki Games as a water polo player. Mr. Havelange joined the Brazilian Olympic Committee in 1955 and became the president of the Brazilian Sports Confederation, now known as the Brazilian Football Confederation, which governed the nation’s soccer programs. He ran the confederation from 1958 until 1973, a period in which Brazil won three World Cups. He was elected to FIFA’s presidency by defeating Sir Stanley Rous of Britain, by which time the demise of colonialism had vastly expanded the number of African and Asian countries in the organization. Mr. Havelange won major support from those regions and FIFA’s many small countries in the     election and rewarded them with FIFA financing for their national soccer organizations. At the same time, he began reshaping the World Cup field beyond its familiar European and South American domination, expanding it from 16 nations to 24 in 1982, and then to 32 in 1998. A crowning triumph for Mr. Havelange’s commercial ambitions came when FIFA held the World Cup in the United States in 1994. “The only hole in his marketing and television plan was the United States, and he filled it by coming here,” Harvey Schiller told The Washington Post in June 1994, when he was the executive director of the United States Olympic Committee. Mr. Havelange had flaunted his power the previous December when he took revenge on Pelé, soccer’s most famous athlete and its most recognizable figure in the United States. He barred Pelé from the 1994 Cup’s draw ceremonies in Las Vegas after Pelé had leveled corruption accusations against the Brazilian soccer governing body, run by Mr. Teixeira. Within FIFA’s ranks, Mr. Havelange was paid homage over the years befitting a global presence. “In the fearsome battle between the Swiss and the French for the rights to host the 1998 World Cup, the Swiss football federation nominated Havelange for the Nobel Peace Prize,” David Goldblatt wrote in his book “The Ball Is Round” (2006). “The standing ovation which followed the announcement would have shamed Khrushchev. ” (The French nonetheless won the right to host the 1998 Cup.) When Mr. Havelange stepped down as FIFA president in 1998, his imprint carried on. He was named FIFA’s honorary president for life. His longtime aide Sepp Blatter, the Swiss businessman and lawyer who had been the association’s secretary general, succeeded him. Mr. Blatter was suspended from FIFA for eight years by its ethics committee in December 2015, six months after he had secured a fifth term. The ban stemmed from his $2 million    payment in 2011 to a top FIFA official, Michel Platini, who had hoped to defeat Mr. Blatter in his bid for a fourth term that year but who dropped out of that race. Mr. Platini also received an   ban. The length of both bans was later reduced by a FIFA appeals panel. Mr. Havelange resigned from his FIFA honorary presidency in April 2013 after a report issued by a FIFA ethics court judge said that Mr. Havelange’s conduct had been “morally and ethically reproachable” because of the ISL bribes. Mr. Blatter was cleared of criminal or ethical wrongdoing in the ISL matter, but he was accused of knowing about the bribes and of “clumsy” conduct. Some 30 current and former soccer and marketing officials, among them Mr. Teixeira, were indicted in 2015 on corruption charges as a result of investigations by the Swiss and United States authorities. That year, some of the individuals were arrested during raids in May and December in Zurich. The charges included racketeering, wire fraud and money laundering. Mr. Blatter was not criminally charged in connection with those inquiries. But in June 2015, he said he would voluntarily give up his FIFA presidency. While maintaining that he had not done anything wrong, he called for a special election to choose his successor so that immediate reform could be instituted. Gianni Infantino of Switzerland, a member of FIFA’s reform committee, was elected to succeed him in February 2016. In addition to his wife, Mr. Havelange’s survivors include a daughter, Lucia, who was married to Mr. Teixeira for many years before their divorce in 1997 two grandsons and a granddaughter, according to The Guardian, a British newspaper. Mr. Havelange’s reputation may have been in tatters in his later years, but the stadium in Rio for the track and field events at the 2016 Summer Olympics, built in 2007, was formally named João Havelange Olympic Stadium. Organizing officials for the Games decided, however, to refer to it simply as “the Olympic Stadium. ” Mr. Havelange invariably had the last word within FIFA, even when it did not have to be uttered. That was the case in 1995 when he was criticized for visiting Nigeria at the same time that a prominent dissident there, Ken   was about to be executed. “I don’t want to make any comparisons with the pope, but he is also criticized from time to time, and his reply is silence,” Mr. Havelange was quoted as saying. “I am, too, sometimes criticized, so explanations about such matters are superfluous. ”