Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. Samin Nosrat joins us with a superlative article in the paper we delivered this morning to doorsteps and driveways across the nation. It’s about what she’s calling the new mother sauces. These are modernized versions of the five basic sauces of French cuisine that Samin has made appropriate to “the kind of     food that cooks and eaters favor today. ” They are yogurt sauce, pepper sauce, herb sauce, tahini sauce and pesto. We’ll be making those for the rest of the summer and probably forever after. So maybe we could get started tonight with some grilled   eggplants with tahini sauce or quickly broiled lamb with yogurt sauce. Or both. Let your imagination be your guide. Alternatively, you can make like the kids out at Achilles Heel in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, who Oliver Strand wrote about this week: They smoke chickens, braise them in chicken fat, then finish them over the grill for a   supper. You could do something similar this week for yourself off my recipe for smoked chicken wings, omitting the braise they use at the restaurant. Figure 30 minutes of smoke for a whole spatchcocked bird, then another 30 to 40 near the actual heat of the fire, turning often and basting with Alabama white barbecue sauce. (Use the leftovers for chicken enchiladas!) Holy cow. Continuing in this vein of narrative ideas for what to cook, let’s turn to Marilyn in Seattle, who is what they call in the radio game a      . She wrote Cooking recently to deliver a terrific   recipe for our Wednesday delectation:   summer corn shaved off the cob, tossed gently with blueberries and torn basil, and drizzled with   olive oil. We’ll take it with thanks, and pair the salad with some simply cooked salmon and a glass of the grüner veltliner Eric Asimov wrote about last week. That would make a superlative midweek supper. Won’t you join us in that as well? Or, you might make Florence Fabricant’s new recipe for grilled scallion lamb pair it with rice pilaf. Or you could make Tamar Adler’s recipe for   salad, a dinner for one that you can scale up with ease. We’re in love with David Tanis’s recipe for summer squash curry. And Melissa Clark’s recipe for classic shrimp scampi never goes out of style. Other recipes to cook this week are available on Cooking, each of them, of course, kitted out with the star ratings and notes by fellow users of the site and apps. Save the ones you’re interested in to your recipe boxes. And if anything goes sideways with the technology, our instruction or prose, please let us know about it: cookingcare@nytimes. com. Now, you should see this kid Viki Gomez ride a bicycle. You should read Sonny Kleinfield’s wonderful account of the full life of a voiceless man on the Upper East Side. And because I spent a full 30 minutes this week listening to a woman on the bus sing the refrain over and over, and it entered my head like a worm, you should turn up this Dottie Peoples song recorded back in 1994: “He’s an On Time God. ” Get cooking.