Kim Severson is filling in for Sam Sifton, who emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Hello, besties. I think this newsletter thing is going really well so far, don’t you? Since there is no one left in New York in August, except the people who stay because they can get a parking space, none of my bosses seem to care that I am just doing whatever I want in this space. Of course, you care. And I love you for it. This is the day we like to cook without a recipe. A day sans receta, as El Bloombito would say if he were a cook. A recent meal built from fresh field peas, marinated cucumbers and tomatoes, plus an impromptu snack of radishes that spent a couple of hours in red wine vinegar, cayenne and salt, got me thinking about why vinegar is really an unsung savior as summer produce plays out. You can combine it with olive oil and garlic to marinate a pork tenderloin or chicken breasts, which gets you into Sam Sifton’s spiedie territory. It can dress any number of leftover steamed vegetables (or try   a technique J. Kenji   discussed on “The Splendid Table”). Or you could do what Nina Bernstein, a New York Times investigative reporter, does when she is not unearthing the sad things that happen to cadavers in New York. She learned the technique from her mother, and she uses it almost daily for her salad. Mash garlic and kosher salt together in a wooden bowl, add a dollop of Dijon mustard and a splash or two of vinegar (she uses balsamic). Stirring steadily and rapidly, slowly pour in a thin stream of   olive oil. Adjust the salt and acid. Pile some dry, sturdy lettuce into the bowl. You can keep it in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve. Then toss it all together. “Tossing well is crucial,” she said. “When you think it’s well tossed, toss some more. ” That salad would be great with a bowl of steamed mussels from David Tanis, or steamed clams à la Sifton, or a   piece of   fish from the steady hand of Martha Rose Shulman. Sometimes you just need a bowl of pasta. Mark Bittman has a good puttanesca, which you can probably make from the pantry. Or you could go deep in the vault and make Pierre Franey’s skirt steak with lentils. Throw in some roasted carrots with parsley and thyme, which went nuts on our Facebook page over the weekend, and you’re golden. Now, for something sweet. I was on a work road trip that took me deep into Alabama’s peach country last week, and I had some great homemade peach ice cream at Durbin Farms Market in Chilton County. It was the kind where the chunks of peach are frozen inside some deeply creamy vanilla ice cream. Don’t be jelly! (As   women should never say.) Here’s a   peach ice cream recipe from my Southern sister Julia Reed. And if you want to approximate the experience with   ice cream, here’s a recipe for butterscotch peaches. I do want to remind you that soon we will be staring down the barrel of a turkey. Here at Recipe Central we are already planning for Thanksgiving. We want to hear stories from your table, with an eye toward the immigrant traditions that have crossed over to the most American of meals. Please take a moment to tell us. And if you’re feeling especially chatty or you’re in the weeds on something   contact us at cookingcare@nytimes. com. You can find me at me on Twitter @kimseverson, on Instagram at kimseverson or NYT Cooking at Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. On Friday we’ll share some of the best tips from the flood of help you sent to Erin C. our reader with a breakfast problem I mentioned on Monday. In the meantime, here’s something from my day job for your reading pleasure: a dispatch from Tucson, a robust food town. I’ll be back inside your head Friday.