The first person I wanted to call when I heard that Colombia’s government and the country’s largest leftist rebel group had reached a peace deal last week was my father. In 1999, my father, Jaime Correal Martinz, was kidnapped by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. He was captured by a gang on his way home from work driven high into the mountains outside Bogotá, the capital and turned over to the rebel group, which held him for ransom for more than eight months. While my stepmother, Samantha, negotiated with the rebels and took care of my younger siblings Nicolas and Lorena in Bogotá, and I finished my sophomore year of college in the United States, my father was moved from camp to camp, hidden under the jungle canopy as military planes swarmed above. He slept in 38 different places. He wasn’t targeted for any particular reason. At the time, kidnapping for ransom was rampant in Colombia, one of the ways the rebels financed the insurgency, along with trafficking cocaine, and he was presumed to be wealthy. What would my father think of the peace deal with his kidnappers? While my father was being held, his travel company went out of business. We lost everything. And we were among the lucky ones. The   conflict, involving the FARC, the military and brutal   paramilitaries, is believed to have claimed more than 220, 000 lives, left 40, 000 people missing and displaced more than five million. The news that the FARC rebels have agreed, after four years of negotiations, to permanently lay down their arms, disband and join the political system is a cause for celebration for some in Colombia. It is the closest the country has ever come to ending its conflict, the longest war in the Americas. Peace in Colombia, the elusive dream of millions who have marched in the streets, seems finally within reach. President Juan Manuel Santos called the accord the door to “a new stage in our history. ” Yet on Oct. 2, when Colombians will have the final say on the peace deal by voting in a referendum, the decision will not be simple. Under the agreement, FARC fighters will receive amnesty for crimes such as drug trafficking. Those who confess to crimes like kidnapping and executions will be subject to five to eight years of restricted mobility, but no prison time. During that time, they are expected to perform social work in communities affected by the conflict. The deal faces significant political opposition, and many Colombians are furious. My father seldom mentioned his time with the FARC after he came home. Once, at the grocery store, he pointed to a package of crackers. “That’s what they gave us to eat during marches,” he said. Another time, he told me that rubber boots made a good pillow if you slipped one inside the other. Those moments offered glimpses of the distant world he had been pulled into, and how it lingered. Generally, and surely for our benefit, he made light of the kidnapping, calling it “my  ” and a   vacation. A decade after the fact, he told me more. I had gotten a grant from Transom. org to make a radio documentary, and we met in Bogotá. (A version of the documentary later aired on “This American Life. ”) Sitting at a friend’s kitchen table, he doodled on a notepad, smoked and talked. Yes, he was fed, even given cigarettes. No, he wasn’t kept in chains. But he was held alone for six months, confined to his   or caleta, where at night he lay awake thinking, or listening in secret to a radio program that aired messages for hostages. He was also forced to trek for days over punishing terrain. Once, when the military moved into a   area, he walked for 11 days straight, climbing a mountain pass in driving rain. Among the hostages on that march were the Ángulos, a   couple in their late 60s who had been kidnapped outside Bogotá. At some point, he told me, Carmenza Ángulo fell behind  —   her feet had swelled and wouldn’t fit into her boots. As she limped along in bare feet, her husband, Gerardo, stayed by her side. A FARC fighter circled back with them. When my father’s group stopped to rest for the night, the fighter reappeared the Ángulos did not. The guerrilla had led them into the trees and, acting on orders, killed them. They were too slow. Their children paid a ransom and searched for them for years in vain, their son Héctor Ángulo told me. Eventually, Héctor returned with a team of investigators and captured guerrillas to look for their bones. My father saw the complexity of the conflict from up close: the FARC’s capacity for cruelty, but also the helplessness, if not innocence, of some young fighters. A few of his armed guards were just 13. Many fighters had been taken from their homes and forced to join as children. One of these fighters played a role in his release. On my father’s 265th day in captivity, as he languished in a camp with several hostages, gunfire erupted outside their caletas. It was the Colombian military, with around 60 soldiers. They fired machine guns, threw grenades. When the noise stopped, a soldier wearing a bandanna approached. “Guys,” my father remembered him saying, “you’re free men. ” The rebels had fled. Among the soldiers was a figure smaller than the others, in a balaclava. After the ambush, she took off her mask, and my father recognized her. She was about 17, and a FARC fighter. He had seen her washing dishes in a camp mess hall. She had escaped, risking execution by the FARC, and turned herself over to the military. If it would free her    brother, who had been forced into the FARC, she would lead it to the captives, including a   hostage, the journalist Guillermo Cortés. She helped free five hostages. At the time, it was one of the largest rescues in Colombia’s history. (It is not clear what happened to her, or to her brother.) After the rescue, my family immediately moved to Panama, where we had family roots. We rarely returned to Colombia, but my father kept track of the news. In the years that followed, the FARC suffered a long string of battlefield setbacks, which ultimately led it to peace talks in Oslo and Havana. Through the peace process, my father remained deeply skeptical of the guerrillas, but hopeful. Was the deal finally reached last week something that he, a victim of the FARC, could endorse? Sadly, I couldn’t call and ask. My father died in June, after a series of strokes, at 63. In the end, the conflict outlived him, if only by a couple of months. After he died, as I prepared to fly back home to New York from Panama, I opened his closet and stood amid his shirts and suits. Seventeen years before, when he was taken from us the first time, I had done the same thing. Then, somewhat miraculously, he had returned. He was reunited with his wife, Samantha, and together they washed away the dank stench of the jungle before he slipped back into his clean, old clothes. With somewhat more effort, he let go of the rancor, the outrage at what had happened, quite senselessly, to him and to our family. Like so many victims of Colombia’s conflict now, in his time, he chose peace. “Did you know Jaime wanted peace with the FARC?” Samantha texted me over the weekend, adding a little heart. That did not mean that he had forgotten. He carried what he saw in that jungle within him forever.