PHOENIX  —   There are certain unspoken talents required of television meteorologists in Phoenix, where the sun shines 296 days of the year and temperatures exceeding 100 degrees faze no one. One such skill is the ability to make the weather sound new each day. As a meteorologist for 12 News, Phoenix’s NBC affiliate, Matt Pace aims to make the recurring sunshine interesting, which is no easy task. I’ve watched Mr. Pace on the air as he searches for just the right words, from a limited list of options, to convey the very straightforward fact that it is so darn hot outside. “I go, ‘It’s hot,’ or, ‘It’s above average,’ or, ‘It’s going to be extremely warm today,’” he said on a   day, from the safety of a Starbucks where he sipped a strawberry smoothie to “take the edge off the heat,” as he put it. “There’s also, ‘It’s really hot out there,’ or, ‘It’s hot, hot, hot,’ or just, ‘Triple hot! ’” On Twitter  —   where Mr. Pace’s often funny, always informative posts often end in exclamation points  —   it may well come to this: There are times when the best approach is to scrap adjectives or superlatives altogether, face the camera and declare, “The high is going to be 118 degrees today. ” When it’s that hot, Mr. Pace said, simplicity is the best way to drive the point across. Before delivering forecasts on TV, Mr. Pace, who has a Ph. D. in meteorology and climatology, was part of a team of meteorologists who monitored the weather from the edge of a runway at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, where the city’s official temperatures are recorded. (It also happens to be one of the warmest places in Phoenix.) He was basically the official whose temperature readings and assessments of visibility during dust storms might force the tower to suspend takeoffs. “I normally worked the overnight shift, when it was cooler,” he said, drawing quotation marks in the air as he said the word “cooler” to highlight what everyone who lives here knows all too well: that “cooler” has another meaning in Phoenix. During the peak of summer, overnight temperatures hardly drop below 90 degrees. But, as they say, it’s a dry heat, at least when it’s not monsoon season, with its powerful   storms. “What the dry heat means,” Mr. Pace said, “is that it might be 111 degrees, but it will feel like 107. ” He took another sip from his smoothie. “I know that still feels ridiculously hot,” he said. “But I think there’s also this psychological thing to living here: You walk outside and you know it will be hot. People just accept it. ”