A lawyer for Roger Ailes, the former chairman of Fox News, has sent a letter to New York magazine suggesting he might take legal action over its reporting about Mr. Ailes. Lauren Starke, a spokeswoman for the magazine, said that Charles J. Harder, who was Hulk Hogan’s lawyer in his successful lawsuit against Gawker Media, had contacted the magazine by email and asked it to preserve documents related to Mr. Ailes in preparation for a possible defamation claim. Mr. Harder sent the email on behalf of Mr. Ailes and his wife, Elizabeth, Ms. Starke said. The move was first reported by The Financial Times. Mr. Harder did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Gabriel Sherman, a reporter for the magazine, has written extensively about Mr. Ailes and the sexual harassment allegations by female employees that resulted in his ouster in July as chairman of Fox News. On Friday, New York published a lengthy article by Mr. Sherman about Mr. Ailes and his downfall, and in July Mr. Sherman was the first to report that Rupert Murdoch and his sons, Lachlan and James, had decided to remove Mr. Ailes from his position. Mr. Sherman declined to comment on Mr. Harder’s request. The magazine said Mr. Sherman’s work “is and has been carefully reported. ” Mr. Harder, a Hollywood lawyer, has become a big name in media circles recently for taking on publications on behalf of   clients. In March he won a $140 million judgment in favor of Hulk Hogan, the former professional wrestler whose real name is Terry G. Bollea, in an    lawsuit against Gawker Media. That case was a professional breakout for Mr. Harder, who had previously been known for handling  —   and usually, settling  —   more routine rights’ enforcement cases for celebrities. After the trial, Peter Thiel, the billionaire Silicon Valley entrepreneur, revealed that he had secretly financed Mr. Bollea’s lawsuit and other legal cases against Gawker. Mr. Harder is also representing Melania Trump, the wife of the Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump, in a libel lawsuit filed last week against the publisher of The Daily Mail. The lawsuit was filed shortly after Mr. Harder sent letters to several publications, including The Daily Mail, Politico and Liberal America, threatening legal action if they did not retract articles that Ms. Trump said contained defamatory statements, including that she was once an escort. The Daily Mail retracted the article and issued an apology after the lawsuit was filed.