A gunman killed one person and wounded five others in a rampage on Friday night in Philadelphia that began when he ambushed a police sergeant in her squad car. Other law enforcement officers responding to the shooting ran after the suspect  —   identified by the police as Nicholas Glenn, 25, of West Philadelphia  —   and cornered him in an alley, where he was shot and killed. “He was hellbent on hurting a lot of people,” Commissioner Richard Ross Jr. of the Philadelphia Police Department said at a news conference on Saturday afternoon. “We still aren’t absolutely clear as to why. ” The commissioner said that the authorities had discovered a “rambling” note on Mr. Glenn’s body, in which he expressed hatred for the police and mentioned a particular probation officer by name. The letter was found inside an envelope labeled “doomed,” Commissioner Ross said. “It’s more about himself than it is about who he wanted to harm or anything like that,” he said. The violence began around 11:20 p. m. the police said, when Mr. Glenn approached Sgt. Sylvia Young, 46, who was seated in her parked vehicle in West Philadelphia. Without saying anything, the man began firing into her window, Commissioner Ross told reporters at an earlier news conference on Saturday. Sergeant Young, a   police veteran, survived after leaning into the passenger seat to shield herself, the commissioner said. Mr. Glenn fired 18 shots, the police said, and some of them hit Ms. Young’s left arm and a protective vest she was wearing. Two rounds struck and disabled her weapon, the police said. Commissioner Ross compared the shooting to a similar ambush in January that wounded another officer. “I’m absolutely astounded by the fact that they both survived,” he said Saturday. Mr. Glenn fled after shooting at Sergeant Young, the police said, and along the way he fired five times into the open door of a bar, where he struck a security guard in the left leg. He then grabbed a woman and used her as a shield before shooting her in the leg, the police said. Mr. Glenn continued running, firing 14 times into a car occupied by a man and a    woman, the police said. The woman, who was shot seven times in the torso, died at a hospital around 2 a. m. on Saturday. Mr. Glenn ran into an alley, where he was pursued by a University of Pennsylvania police officer and two Philadelphia officers. He was fatally shot there, the police said, but not before wounding the university officer. The Philadelphia Inquirer identified the university officer as Eddie Miller, 56, a former Philadelphia police sergeant who joined Penn’s police force two years ago. All of those wounded are expected to survive, officials said. The authorities did not release the names of the civilians who were wounded or the woman who was killed. Commissioner Ross said Mr. Glenn was “well known” by the Philadelphia Police Department. The Inquirer reported that court records show Mr. Glenn had a history of   convictions. He also had been arrested and charged in connection with a   rape in November 2009, but those charges were later dropped, the newspaper said.