Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, the eldest child of Robert F. Kennedy, said in a Facebook post on Monday that the elder President George Bush told her that he planned to vote for Hillary Clinton. The former president, however, is not talking. Ms. Townsend, 65, a former lieutenant governor of Maryland who on Facebook uses her middle name, Hartington, posted a picture of her shaking Mr. Bush’s hand. “The President told me he’s voting for Hillary! !” the caption said. Jim McGrath, a spokesman for the former president, 92, would neither confirm nor deny Ms. Townsend’s claim. “The vote President Bush will cast as a private citizen in some 50 days will be just that: a private vote cast in some 50 days,” Mr. McGrath said in an email. “He is not commenting on the presidential race in the interim. ” Ms. Townsend’s post was  reported on Monday by Politico. CNN posted a screen shot of the post, which did not appear to have been made public on Ms. Townsend’s Facebook page. Ms. Townsend told Politico that she had met with the former president in Maine earlier in the day. A report in The Texas Tribune in May, several months after Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, dropped out of the presidential race, quoted Mr. McGrath saying that the former president was not planning to make a public endorsement. “President Bush is retired from politics,” McGrath wrote in an email then. “He came out of retirement to do a few things for Jeb, but those were the exceptions that proved the rule. ” Former President George W. Bush, Mr. Bush’s oldest son, was also not planning on making a public endorsement, his aide Freddy Ford said at the time. Neither of the former presidents attended the Republican convention, though the younger Mr. Bush has campaigned on behalf of Republican candidates for Senate, including Senators John McCain of Arizona and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. Many influential Republicans, including various members of both Bush administrations, have said they will not vote for the party’s nominee, Donald J. Trump. In June, Henry M. Paulson Jr. the Treasury secretary under George W. Bush, wrote an   article announcing that he would be casting a vote for Mrs. Clinton, making him one of several members of the last Republican presidential administration who have said they would be voting for the Democratic candidate.