After the police in Tulsa, Okla. released video footage of an officer fatally shooting an unarmed man, and then standing back rather than tending to the man’s wounds, many people had the same reaction as a local activist, Marq Lewis, who voiced outrage that “they let him lay there   minutes, bleeding. ” Anger at the treatment of the man, Terence Crutcher  —   not only his shooting last Friday, but also how officers behaved afterward  —   echoed concerns over other recent cases, mostly involving black males who died at the hands of the police. Notably, when Tamir Rice, a    boy with a pellet gun, was shot to death in 2014 in a park in Cleveland, officers stood around for several minutes, waiting for an emergency medical team and offering no first aid. So what should officers do? Experts in policing agree that the way officers respond, or fail to, is often a problem, but they say that such failures are not necessarily the fault of the officers, and that law enforcement agencies are starting to address them. “It is reasonable for people to assume that when it is safe for the officers to do so, that they would render first aid to somebody they’ve just shot,” said Jim Bueermann, a former police chief who is president of the Police Foundation, a research group that advises law enforcement agencies. “But a lot of departments do not have policies that clearly articulate the officer’s responsibilities in that situation, and some have no policy at all. ” This year, the Police Executive Research Forum, another research group, issued a list of 30    policies that police departments should adopt, including a requirement that officers render first aid when they can. Officials and    officers have raised objections to other recommendations on the list, but not to that one, said Chuck Wexler, the group’s executive director. “Cops have to be able to pivot immediately from using deadly force to trying to save a life,” said Mr. Wexler, a former police officer. “That is tough, we know that, but it’s what’s needed, and it’s not happening. ” Officers get   training at police academies, but experts say it is often rudimentary, and not reinforced through their careers. A New York City officer, Peter Liang, who was convicted of manslaughter for fatally shooting a man in an apartment house stairwell, said he did not give the man CPR because he had not been properly trained in the procedure, a claim the department upheld. Even when agencies do instruct officers to give first aid, as many police departments in large cities do, officers often lack the training or equipment to handle gunshot wounds. “It’s typically geared toward, you come across an auto accident, or someone is having a heart attack or choking,” said William Johnson, executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, a coalition of police officer unions. “If there’s a gunshot wound, the typical training is for the officer to call for medical help. ” Some agencies have increased medical training in recent years, and others, like the police departments in Cleveland and Los Angeles, have equipped officers with trauma kits that contain items such as tourniquets, bandages and sterile gloves. “In my 20 years in the Newark Police Department, not once did we ever have the equipment to deal with something as serious as a gunshot,” said Jon Shane, an assistant professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York City. Mr. Shane questioned the wisdom of adding yet another set of responsibilities to officers he said were already overburdened. “The more you spread yourself thin like that, the worse you become at your job,” he said. But Brigitt Keller, executive director of the National Police Accountability Project of the National Lawyers Guild, said that when officers fail to aid someone who is dying, something far worse than poor policies, training and equipment may be at work. “I’m appalled that someone can stand there and watch somebody die without the impulse and the humanity to render aid,” she said. “It’s an indication of how far removed some police officers are from the communities they serve, that you can watch someone die in front of your eyes and remain detached. ” Yet others say that what looks like disregard for life may just reflect human nature. A person who has just shot someone is flooded with adrenaline, sometimes traumatized, and often not thinking clearly. What seems like callousness could also be a product of training. Officers are taught, above all, to secure the scene when force is used  —   to make sure the person, a suspect, is unarmed and that there is no one else around who can pose a threat. In some places, department policy calls for handcuffing the shooting victim. “There’s a difference between officers just standing around while somebody is bleeding to death, and being sure you can safely approach the individual who’s been shot,” Mr. Bueermann, the Police Foundation president, said.