Broadway shows often fold their tents at the end of the year, fearing the winter blues at the box office. But this year a few shows of note are holding on, at least for a week or two. You’ve got a few more days to catch Stephen Karam’s gorgeous “The Humans,” last season’s Tony winner for best play (ending on Jan. 15) and even fewer to jump on the exhilarating emotional roller coaster that is the sublime revival of the musical “Falsettos” (ending on Sunday). Looking further ahead, here are other notable shows and events I’d put at the top of my    list. The first of the majestic   cycle of plays written by the great August Wilson, this drama set in the 1970s (and written in 1979) was, until now, the only piece of the cycle not to be produced on Broadway. A classic Wilson ensemble drama, about a group of gypsy cab drivers in the Hill District of Pittsburgh, the new Manhattan Theater Club production is directed by Ruben   who has both appeared in and directed Wilson’s plays  —   notably the superb recent revival of “The Piano Lesson” from the Signature Theater. (In previews for a Jan. 19 opening at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater.) Normally I frown on theater as a rarefied form of stargazing. But with a star as luminous as Cate Blanchett, I will grant an exception. And, of course, Ms. Blanchett, who graces this new adaptation of “Platonov,” an early Chekhov play, is not merely a movie star burnishing her reputation with a Broadway debut. During the past decade she has made regular, acclaimed appearances on the New York stage, in productions imported from the Sydney Theater Company (as is this one). An unwieldy drama about the familiar Chekhovian concerns  —   lives full of regret, stomachs bloated with vodka  —   the play has been moved from Russia in the 19th century to Russia in the late 20th century for this version by Andrew Upton, Ms. Blanchett’s husband. The esteemed Australian actor Richard Roxburgh is Platonov. (In previews for a Sunday opening at the Barrymore Theater.) I have been saving this lovable classic as a cure for the   blues. The small but enterprising Irish Rep first produced this delicious musical whimsy, with a glorious, multihued score by Burton Lane and E. Y. Harburg, a dozen years ago, with Melissa Errico as the ingénue, Sharon (she who wonders “How Are Things in Glocca Morra? ”). The seemingly ageless Ms. Errico, I am delighted to report, is unfurling her silvery soprano once again in this revival, directed by the company’s artistic director, Charlotte Moore. (Through Jan. 29 at the Irish Repertory Theater.) [Read the review] This is not a single show (as downtown theatergoers will, of course, know) but a whole feast of international theater, presented by the Public Theater at its home base and elsewhere. Along with P. S. 122’s Coil and other festivals, it has come to make January a dizzying smorgasbord of experimental theater. Highlights this year include a new production from one of my favorite companies, the imaginative 600 Highwaymen, presenting “The Fever,” which is said to be “performed in complete collaboration with the audience. ” Bring your tap shoes  —   or at least a willingness to blast your way through the fourth wall on a regular basis. (Various locations,  .) Martin McDonagh’s     was the first of his trilogy of plays set in the impoverished Irish village of the title. It returns in a   production from the Druid Theater, the company that first made a splash internationally with a pungent production that ultimately moved to Broadway. Once again the company’s longtime chief, Garry Hynes, directs. And Marie Mullen, who won a Tony Award as the embittered daughter of a manipulative terror of a mother, with the aptly monstrous name Mag, now takes on that formidable role. (Begins performances at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Jan. 11.)