At the Democratic National Convention this summer, Hillary Clinton said   were due for a tax increase. “This is not because we resent success,” she said. “But when more than 90 percent of the gains have gone to the top 1 percent, that’s where the money is. ” But defining America’s 1 percent  —   and finding out “where the money is”  —   has become an increasingly subjective endeavor. As wealth becomes more concentrated in certain states and even counties, the gap between the national 1 percent and the local 1 percent is growing, creating wealth clusters that are pulling away from the rest of the country. To be in the top 1 percent of incomes nationally, families need to take in a minimum of $389, 436. The average income of America’s   is $1, 153, 293, according to a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute. Yet when incomes are measured state by state, the study shows wildly diverging fortunes for  .   in the New York metro area (which includes parts of New Jersey and Pennsylvania) earn at least $673, 000. Those in the   Conn. area make at least $1. 4 million. Both are eclipsed by the   of Jackson, Wyo. who earn at least $1. 7 million. Why Jackson? Billionaires have been flocking to Wyoming, attracted by its outdoor lifestyle and low taxes. Teton County, Wyo. is the richest in America when it comes to 1 percent incomes, with   earning more than $2. 2 million. New York County, or Manhattan, ranks second, with a $1. 44 million threshold, followed by Fairfield County, Conn. with just under $1. 4 million. The tech boom has helped the 1 percent in San Mateo County and Marin County, Calif. where they earn at least $1. 1 million. By contrast, you need only $97, 000 to be a   in Holmes County, Miss. or Lamar County, Ala. or $108, 000 in Grayson County, Va. “All high incomes are going up, but they’re going up much faster in places like New York, Maryland and California,” said Mark Price, a labor economist at the Keystone Research Center and   of the Economic Policy Institute study. It’s no surprise that the most expensive states have the highest incomes at the top. And wealth, by nature, has always been relative. Yet economists and wealth experts say the economic distance between   in rich states and the   in middling or even affluent states has widened drastically, creating a new national landscape of the 1 percent. “We have a growing concentration of wealth and income by locality,” said Edward N. Wolff, an economics professor at New York University. “The   localities and those top earners are moving away from the rest of the country. ” Regionally, the Northeast has been pulling away the fastest. The income threshold of the top 1 percent surged 101 percent in the Northeast from 1979 to 2013, according to Mr. Price. In the South and Midwest, the threshold has grown by about half that. In Massachusetts,  ’ incomes jumped 130 percent from 1979 to 2013 they’ve increased by 112 percent in New York and 113 percent in New Jersey. In New Mexico, they’ve grown only 22 percent over the same period, and in Nevada, only 15 percent. Yet the rich are also moving beyond the traditional hubs of the Northeast and California, creating some unlikely   enclaves, such as Wyoming. North Dakota also moved up the   ranks  —   from 45th to ninth from 1979 to 2013  —   as the oil boom lifted the fortunes of its fortunate. The new peaks and valleys of America’s elite have made national definitions less and less useful. The 1 percent is no longer the very top layer of the national economy, but a much deeper slice of residents in     states like New York, Connecticut and California. The shift has important policy and cultural implications. Calls to tax the 1 percent nationally are really calls to tax the top 5 or 10 percent in the richest states  —   while missing the top 1 percent in many Western and Southern states. “A tax on the 1 percent is increasingly a regional tax,” Mr. Price said. “On average, more folks will be touched by higher rates in New York than, say, West Virginia. ” Many economists say that’s as it should be  —   people making more than $389, 000 should pay higher tax rates, regardless of where they live. “They should pay more,” Mr. Wolff of N. Y. U. said. “It shouldn’t matter where they live. They’re earning large amounts of money. ” Yet they may not feel like top earners. People making $389, 000 in New York or Connecticut, for instance, are only in the top 10 percent for their states. They may not feel like   since so many people around them are far richer. “I have friends who may be in the 1 percent nationally but say they don’t feel rich because they have friends who are richer,” Mr. Wolff said. “Psychologically they don’t feel like a  . They don’t feel rich. But they really are. ”