Four years after Hurricane Sandy, my condominium development at the Jersey Shore is finally fully back. Many of the residents around us in Ortley Beach  —   a Toms River beach town that was described as New Jersey’s “ground zero” in the hurricane  —   are still struggling through recovery, and some have abandoned their efforts and property. No one who was affected by that storm  —   or Hurricanes Katrina or Andrew or any other big natural disaster  —   will look at an approaching storm without deep trepidation. Here are some tips, learned through experience. ■ If they tell you to get out  —   get out. You put emergency crews in danger if you refuse to leave, and once the storm hits, your window of opportunity to leave is minuscule. ■ If you insist on staying, have a logical, achievable escape plan, and set a threshold for activating it. If you wait until the last minute, it will be too late, as an acquaintance of mine learned: He and his son had to jump out of an   window, into the rising sea, and swim for their lives to a condominium development farther inland, where they kicked in a door and rode out the storm on the third floor. ■ Water rises swiftly and is more powerful than you can imagine. See anecdote above. ■ If you are in the evacuation zone and staying  —   or if you are just outside the zone  —   find a place in your home that can withstand extreme wind. Relatives of mine locked themselves in an inner bathroom during Hurricane Andrew, holding the doorknob for dear life when the wind died and they opened the door, there was nothing left of the rest of the house, but they were unharmed. ■ Put your important papers, your wallet, your purse and any jewelry that you hold near and dear into your safest space (someone online suggested a washer, dryer or refrigerator). Put other valuables, like family photographs, in tightly wrapped garbage bags and place them somewhere off the floor. You will need those papers to put your life back together after the storm. ■ Have numbers for your insurance company programmed into your cellphone (and make sure it is charged). ■ If you have loved ones in a nursing or an   facility, or a hospital, get cellphone numbers and other contact information so you can check on them after the storm passes. If the facility does not contact you to share its storm plans, make sure you pin them down before it hits. ■ Many insurance companies will fight you tooth and nail on your claims. Document your valuables before the storm and be meticulous in keeping track of your losses and recovery expenses. Then be prepared to devote a large part of your life to fighting for what’s due. (Hopefully, this will not happen to you, but it did for far too many people I know). What are your tips? Let us know by leaving a comment.