(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The extent of the devastation Hurricane Matthew inflicted on Haiti is becoming clearer. The death toll is now believed to be over 800 and some villages are under several feet of water. The storm continues to move up the East Coast, weakening slightly to a Category 3. President Obama warned against complacency. “I just want to emphasize to everybody that this is still a really dangerous hurricane,” he said. ____ 2. Donald Trump is facing sharp criticism over a recently surfaced tape of him talking lewdly about trying to have sex with a married woman shortly after his own third wedding. He’ll likely have to field questions about it when he meets Hillary Clinton on Sunday for their second debate (9 p. m. Eastern). But this time, the questions will be from undecided voters instead of a moderator. Gary Johnson, the Libertarian candidate, didn’t make the polling cutoff for the debate. We joined him on the campaign trail, where he browses Yelp to figure out where to eat. ____ 3. The U. S. has formally accused Russia of stealing and disclosing emails from the Democratic National Committee in an effort to interfere with the election. “We believe, based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, that only Russia’s   officials could have authorized these activities,” said a statement from the Department of Homeland Security. ____ 4. The latest jobs report supports what both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump have been saying about the economy. Yes, the economy is growing steadily and creating   jobs, as Mrs. Clinton says. But manufacturing jobs have fallen and millions of Americans remain economically sidelined, as Mr. Trump says. Employers added 156, 000 jobs last month, average hourly earnings moved slightly higher and 500, 000 people entered the labor force in September. ____ 5. The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Juan Manuel Santos, above, the president of Colombia, for pursuing a deal to end the country’s    war with the leftist rebel group known as the FARC. But the timing of the announcement is bittersweet: Five days ago, Colombians rejected the peace deal in a shocking referendum result. The prize could revive hopes for the agreement, but Colombians remain deeply polarized. ____ 6. Iraqi and American troops are preparing to retake the city of Mosul from the Islamic State. But concerns are rising over how well the city can be secured afterward. Driving the Islamic State out of Mosul would be a significant defeat for the group, but not a final one: Raqqa, in Syria, is the group’s de facto capital. ____ 7. It was a humid evening on a Bronx playground when a gunshot rang out. A mother leapt to protect her children, and a bullet pierced her heart. Her killer has not been found. The story of Jessica White is the latest chapter in our examination of every murder this year in one of New York City’s deadliest police precincts. ____ 8. In cinemas this weekend:  “The Girl on the Train,” “Voyage of Time: The Imax Experience,” the controversial “Birth of a Nation,” and “The Greasy Strangler. ” Some notes: Our critic described “The Girl on the Train,” above, as a preposterous movie but not an unenjoyable one. And we’ve termed “The Greasy Strangler” maybe the weirdest movie ever. The choice is yours. ____ 9. Adele. Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani activist. The television producer Shonda Rhimes. Senator Elizabeth Warren. These are among the women featured in new work from Annie Leibovitz, above, the celebrity photographer. She is expanding on the 1999 project “Women,” a book collaboration with her partner, Susan Sontag, who died in 2004. This time, Ms. Leibovitz says, it was easier to find women in leadership positions. And she has a powerful advocate for women as a mentor on the project: Gloria Steinem. ____ 10. Finally, six scientists took a   road trip in Alaska for the sake of finding Bombus polaris, an Arctic bumblebee. The goal was to learn how the bees are faring in a place where climate change is occurring rapidly. The group spent its days battling mosquitoes, but prevailed. And in the end, they found 40 of the big, fuzzy,   creatures. Almost cuddly, the hunters said (until one got stung). “They’re the pandas of the insect world,” one of the scientists said. ____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.