Jake Arrieta was dominant in the early going, and the Chicago offense more than backed him up as the Cubs beat the Cleveland Indians,   in Game 2, tying the World Series at one game apiece. The series now shifts to Chicago’s Wrigley Field, which hasn’t hosted a World Series game since 1945. Here’s a look at the important story lines after two games: ■ The Cubs offense runs through Ben Zobrist and Kyle Schwarber. Zobrist, a versatile infielder and outfielder, and Schwarber, a hitter who is sometimes forced to play defense, are a combined 8 for 15 with 2 runs, 3 runs batted in and 3 walks. The rest of the Cubs have combined to go 8 for 56 with 2 R. B. I. Chicago’s reliance on the tandem could be an issue going forward as Schwarber, working his way back from a catastrophic knee injury, has yet to be cleared to play the field. The Cubs will have a hard decision on how to handle Schwarber going forward. He has has said he does not feel comfortable with the idea of playing outfield yet, but having him out of the lineup for three consecutive games would be tough for the Cubs. In an   interview after Game 2, Schwarber did not offer much insight into how they will proceed. “I don’t know,” he said. “I haven’t tried it. I might try it out and see what happens and we’ll go from there. ” ■ Cleveland’s plan of being aggressive on the basepaths has not worked out. Francisco Lindor stole second in the first inning of Game 1, but the team that led the American League in steals this season has yet to have one since. It is not helping that Rajai Davis, who led the team with 43 steals, has been on base just once in seven plate appearances. Joe Maddon has said that Willson Contreras will start at catcher for at least the next two games, and his strong arm and aggressive style may convince the Indians to find a new way of doing things. ■ The Cubs have a huge advantage in the depth of the team’s starting rotation. Game 1 was a pitcher’s duel between two aces but by Game 2 it was a total mismatch between Trevor Bauer, who would not even be a starter for many teams, and Jake Arrieta who has been perhaps the second or third best pitcher in the National League over the last two seasons. That will remain true until the Indians’ Corey Kluber starts again in Game 4. In Game 3, the Cubs will send out Kyle Hendricks, who led the majors in   average and adjusted E. R. A. to face Josh Tomlin, a      who showed good control and not much else in a fairly average season (though he has performed well in his two postseason starts). ■ Both managers have no fear of using their bullpens. The deepest a starter has gone so far is Kluber’s six innings in Game 1, with the teams combining to use 14 relievers for 14 innings of work. With Game 2 out of reach, Cleveland was able to give Andrew Miller a day to rest after his   effort in Game 1. He will get another day off as the team travels on Thursday, which could lead to Terry Francona being incredibly aggressive with how early he goes to him on Friday night. Here’s an    breakdown of what happened in Game 2: It was Chicago’s turn to get off to a fast start. Game 2 began with a   ball from Trevor Bauer to Dexter Fowler. Two pitches later Bauer got the Cubs’ leadoff hitter to hit a broken bat grounder to the mound for the first out of the game. But Kris Bryant, who was hitless in Game 1, got things started with a single and Anthony Rizzo followed that up by crushing a liner to right field that gave Bryant plenty of time to score from first, with Rizzo getting into second base easily for a double. Ben Zobrist flied out and Bauer struck out Kyle Schwarber to get out of the jam. Bauer, who typically labors quite a bit to get outs even when he is pitching well, threw 29 pitches in the inning  —   including 10 in Zobrist’s    —   and if early going was any indication, Cleveland may be going to the bullpen early. David Waldstein: Trevor Bauer actually made it through the first inning, but only barely. Bauer was not sharp in that inning, but perhaps that was to be expected. He has only thrown   of an inning (his aborted A. L. C. S. start) since Oct. 6. That’s nearly three weeks without being on the mound in a game. Jake Arrieta was looking the part of the tough guy to start the game, going with short sleeves in the cold and rainy weather while Javier Baez stood at second base with a hood pulled up under his hat. Things got off to a good start for Arrieta, with two quick outs, but then he seemed to lose his command, walking both Francisco Lindor and Mike Napoli. At one point he threw six consecutive pitches well outside the strike zone, continuing the struggles he had with command this season. With two on and two out, Jose Ramirez hit a ball deep to center field, but it fell into Tyler Naquin’s glove to end the inning without any actual damage done. Javier Baez got the inning started by hitting a chopper to third base that Jose Ramirez couldn’t   on a bad hop. It will look like a line drive in the box score as Baez reached first for a single. But Trevor Bauer was unfazed, getting   from Willson Contreras, Jorge Soler and Addison Russell to end the inning. Bauer has continued to have to work hard for every out, and is up to 51 pitches in just two innings of work. David Waldstein: The Cubs’ run in the first inning broke a streak of 18 consecutive scoreless innings by Cleveland pitchers. That’s how you go   in the postseason. Bauer settled into a better vibe in the second, but he is still having trouble with his curveball. He is either hanging them or not getting it over for strikes. Wonder if the pinkie is a problem with his curveball grip. He threw 22 pitches in the second and is at 51 through 2 innings. That could become a factor. Bauer walked 70 batters this year and a   79 the year before. So, the Cubs could look to be aggressive on the first pitch, but then be patient after that, get men on base and then do some real damage. Things were awfully quiet for the Cleveland offense. Jake Arrieta only needed two pitches to retire Lonnie Chisenhall and got Coco Crisp to line out to Javier Baez for the second out. Tyler Naquin worked into a   but he struck out swinging to end the inning. David Waldstein: After Andrew Miller threw 46 pitches in Game 1 there were questions about whether he could pitch in Game 2. He is available tonight, but we don’t know how much. He could be used for one batter  —   maybe to face Anthony Rizzo or Kyle Schwarber at a critical juncture. Speaking of Miller, before the game he was asked about being used in specific roles and he said that when he was with the Yankees. When Aroldis Chapman returned from his suspension, Manager Joe Girardi’s handling of it was confusing for Miller and Dellin Betances. “I know when Chapman came back this year Dellin and I were kind of up in the air about which order we would pitch,” he said. “And in some instances it created a mess because we were both warming up next to each other. I think all managers, like Joe, Tito, I’ve been lucky to have some that really handle the bullpen well. But you hate to have two guys warming up at the same time. It seems wasteful, in a sense. ” The incredible comeback story of Kyle Schwarber continues: He did not have a hit in the regular season, but as the Cubs’ designated hitter he drove in a run with a single to increase the Cubs’ lead to  . It looked like Trevor Bauer had calmed down, and was going to have an easy inning, but then his lack of control extended the inning and also increased Cleveland’s deficit. Facing the top of the order, Bauer got a quick out on a grounder to second from Dexter Fowler, who is now 0 for 6 in the series. He then played with fire, hanging a curveball to Kris Bryant, but got away with it when the slugging third baseman lined out to shortstop. With two outs, Bauer froze Anthony Rizzo with a pair of nasty curveballs that had the big first baseman buckling at the knees, but then he simply lost control of the   and threw four consecutive balls to send Rizzo to first. Ben Zobrist followed Rizzo with a single and then Schwarber singled to score Rizzo. David Waldstein: Activating Kyle Schwarber for the World Series after a major knee injury in April might go down as one of the best roster transactions of the postseason. He singled in a run, and then yelled an expletive at his bench after getting on base. Oh, these ballplayers. This is definitely going to become a bullpen game for the Indians. Bauer’s pinkie doesn’t seem to be bleeding but he has thrown 71 pitches already. The Indians had Zach McAllister and Jeff Manship warming in the last inning. Remember, Danny Salazar is down there, too. After clubbing two home runs in his first World Series game, Roberto Perez showed bunt on Jake Arrieta’s first pitch to him, but he pulled the bat back and ended up striking out in an    . Carlos Santana worked a   but also struck out on a ball he felt was out of the strike zone. Jason Kipnis ended the inning with a fly ball to left and Arrieta has now retired seven consecutive batters. David Waldstein: The pace of this game is not great in terms of avoiding the rain that is supposedly on its way. But we may avoid it, anyway. It is pretty chilly, about 43 degrees, but the latest weather reports say there is supposedly zero percent chance of rain through 10 p. m. Eastern time, and only a 25 percent chance of rain through 11 p. m. With Cleveland’s bullpen already stirring, Willson Contreras led off the inning for Chicago with a walk. Trevor Bauer got some good luck when Jorge Soler grounded to the hole between first and second, but Jason Kipnis was able to field the ball and start a   to erase Contreras. Addison Russell singled and that was enough for Terry Francona, who pulled Bauer in favor of Zach McAllister. McAllister, a former prospect as a starter who has settled into a role as a decent reliever for the Indians, struck out Dexter Fowler to end the inning. David Waldstein: Not a great outing by Bauer. He clearly didn’t have the feel on his pitches, and that kind of pitch count is not helpful  —   87 pitches in three and   innings. By comparison, Greg Maddux threw a complete game against the Cubs in 1997 (the year the Indians last went to the World Series). Maddux hit double figures in pitches in only two innings in that game. It has been four innings and Cleveland has yet to get a hit against the pitcher who is the best in the majors at not allowing them. Arrieta, in short sleeves, pitched to Francisco Lindor, who was not only wearing a hood but also had his mouth and nose covered. The extra warmth didn’t matter, with Arrieta getting Lindor with a called strike three. Mike Napoli was next, and he flied out weakly to center. Jose Ramirez walked, but Arrieta got Lonnie Chisenhall to pop out to end the inning. Arrieta has thrown two   in his career and has led the majors in fewest hits allowed per nine innings in each of the last two seasons. The Cubs are continuing to pile on in support of Jake Arrieta’s masterpiece. Zach McCallister started off the inning with his second consecutive strikeout, but Anthony Rizzo was able to draw a   walk. Ben Zobrist made McAllister pay for it by driving a ball to the   wall that Lonnie Chisenhall fell down trying to corral. Rizzo scored all the way from first and Zobrist slid into third for a triple, ending McAllister’s day. Bryan Shaw came on in relief to face Kyle Schwarber and Schwarber delivered once again, with a single that brought Zobrist home, stretching the lead to   with Cleveland having recorded just one out. Shaw struck out Javier Baez for the second out of the inning but Jason Kipnis bobbled a grounder from Willson Contreras that allowed the Cubs’ catcher to reach first base. With runners at first and third, Jorge Soler walked to load the bases and then Shaw walked Addison Russell to force in a run, pushing the score to  . Luckily for Shaw, the next batter was the struggling Dexter Fowler, who struck out swinging, and extended his hitless streak in the series to eight  . David Waldstein: Kyle Schwarber cannot be stopped. The question is, can he possibly play in the outfield when the series moves to National League park Wrigley Field? I would think not because of his surgically repaired knee. But his bat is such a weapon, it may be tempting for the Cubs to play him. They already took a chance by putting him on the World Series roster, but playing him in the outfield is kind of pushing it. Now, let’s see if the Indians can get a hit. That would be a good place for them to start. Jake Arrieta got a quick first out on a liner from Coco Crisp and then struck out Tyler Naquin. Roberto Perez, the hero of Game 1, put a charge into the ball, but Ben Zobrist caught it near the wall to end the inning and preserve the  . After entering the game as a   for Jorge Soler in the   of the inning, the struggling Jason Heyward stayed in to play right field. Considering his gigantic contract, it would be good for Heyward to chip in on offense as well. David Waldstein: Arrieta is pitching like it is 2015, or at least the first half of 2016. I know he was not at his best down the stretch, but Arrieta is a great choice to pitch on the road. Over the last two seasons he is   away from Wrigley Field, and yes, records do matter for starting pitchers when the numbers are that prominent. Last year he was   on the road with a 1. 60 earned run average. Cleveland still doesn’t have a hit. Arrieta is putting the ball on the corners with late movement and a lot of heat. How do you hit that? He’s thrown 79 pitches through five innings. Cleveland fans here have almost nothing to cheer, but they were jazzed up to see members of the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball team in their usual luxury box showing off their brand new championship rings. I saw J. R. Smith and Kevin Love. I think LeBron is also here, somewhere, too. Maybe he could get a hit off of Arrieta. Danny Salazar became Cleveland’s fourth pitcher of the night, and the   got off to a good start by getting Kris Bryant to line out to center and Anthony Rizzo to ground out to first. He got into a jam by issuing consecutive walks to Ben Zobrist and Kyle Schwarber, but he wriggled out of the inning by inducing a popup to center from Javier Baez. The Cleveland bullpen is getting a lot of work in tonight. David Waldstein: Attendance is announced as 38, 172. A lot of them are Cubs fans. The rest are cold and miserable, since the Indians don’t have a hit and Jake Arrieta has faced only three batters above the minimum. Things are looking good for Chicago. The last time the Cubs won a World Series game was Game 6 in 1945 (they lost Game 7 when Hal Newhouser threw a complete game for the Detroit Tigers). Skeeter Webb, Dizzy Trout and Peanuts Lowrey went a combined 1 for 10 for both teams in that game. Coco Crisp could have played in that game. Jake Arrieta’s pursuit of the third   in postseason history ended when Jason Kipnis hit a   double up the middle. Two batters later the Indians scored the team’s first run of the game when a wild pitch allowed Kipnis to score. After the wild pitch and a single by Mike Napoli, Cubs Manager Joe Maddon pulled Arrieta in favor of Mike Montgomery. While thoughts of Arrieta joining Don Larsen and Roy Halladay in the history books were fun, it was unlikely he would have been allowed to go the distance. His   when he was pulled was already at 98. Montgomery needed just two pitches to end the inning, getting Jose Ramirez to ground out, ending the modest rally. Jeff Manship entered the game as Cleveland’s fifth pitcher of the night and started things off with a walk to Willson Contreras. That brought up the struggling Jason Heyward, and while the box score says Heyward recorded an out, the big outfielder’s   ball to the outfield had to be encouraging for him following a difficult first year in Chicago. The Indians then tried to get fancy on a ground ball from Addison Russell and it backfired. Shortstop Francisco Lindor made a diving stop and tried to flip it to Jason Kipnis at second base from behind his back to try and start a double play. The flip was well out of Kipnis’s reach, and the second baseman was saddled with an error for his trouble. Dexter Fowler loaded the bases with his first hit of the series and that was it for Manship, who was relieved by Dan Otero having recorded just one out while allowing three baserunners. Asked to work out of a terrible jam, Otero immediately got a ground ball to   from Kris Bryant to erase the run at home. Otero then got Anthony Rizzo to fly out to left to end the inning. David Waldstein: Before people start claiming Kipnis, a former Cubs fan from Northbrook, Ill. is subconsciously trying to help his former favorite team end their   jinx, remember he got the first hit off of Arrieta, a hustling double, and scored Cleveland’s only run. Not that anyone would say that with any level of seriousness. The good news for the Indians is that Kipnis’s ankle seems to be fine. The bad news is that he is having trouble catching the ball. Maybe he sprained his glove, too. Cleveland’s ageless speedster Rajai Davis led off the   as a   in place of Lonnie Chisenhall and offered some comic relief as he hit a ball down the   line that was ruled foul. Davis didn’t hear the call and ran hard through the bag, with his helmet flying off his head as he appeared to beat the throw. The play was convincing enough that Coco Crisp was digging into the batter’s box and had to be told by the umpire that Davis was still up. Ultimately, Mike Montgomery struck Davis out, and when Crisp was allowed to bat for real, Montgomery struck him out as well. Brandon Guyer entered the game as a   for Tyler Naquin and singled to center. He advanced to second on a wild pitch and Roberto Perez walked but Montgomery struck out Carlos Santana to end the threat. David Waldstein: Both teams need to speed up play. Weather reports say showers are headed this way soon. Nothing yet, though. Technically, if it rains so hard they have to stop play, and it persists for the night, they could suspend the game and come back here tomorrow to finish it off, which is the last thing anyone wants, except for maybe the vendors at Progressive Field. I think it’s more likely that they would play through a hurricane before suspending play, but that is in the hands of the umpires. Chicago is supposed to at least be warmer for the weekend games. Dan Otero retired the   Ben Zobrist to start the inning and then continued his mastery of the Chicago hitters by catching Kyle Schwarber looking at strike three. He got Javier Baez to ground out to end the inning and has retired all five batters he has faced. David Waldstein: Indians pitchers get their first    inning. They have thrown a combined 186 pitches from six pitchers through eight innings. That’s what days off are for. The only good thing is that Andrew Miller, who threw 46 pitches in Game 1, won’t have to pitch at all, barring some kind of miraculous comeback by the Indians. Say this for the Cleveland fans. Most of them are still here, and a lot are standing when the Indians are at the plate. Rugged crowd. Mike Montgomery kept up his strong relief outing, retiring the first two batters he saw, but when Mike Napoli got his second hit of the game, Joe Maddon decided it was time to turn to his closer, Aroldis Chapman. The controversial reliever with the   fastball got a strikeout to end the inning, giving Cleveland just one more chance to get back into the game. David Waldstein: Chicago is three outs away with Chapman, who is throwing 103 miles per hour, on the mound. Can you imagine facing that kind of fastball on a raw night like this? If the Cubs hold on to win, it will mark the 58th time that the World Series has been tied after two games. In the previous 57, the winner of Game 2 has gone on to win the World Series 29 times, virtually half of those occasions (50. 9 percent). Mike Clevenger came in for the ninth inning as Cleveland’s seventh pitcher of the game and recorded a    inning. The Indians have three more outs to try and make up a   deficit. The Cubs’   closer topped out at 102 on the radar gun in the bottom of the ninth. Other than walking Brandon Guyer, Chapman had little trouble in what was probably a good warmup for him as the Series heads home to Chicago for three games. Odds are the Cubs will need him for extensive work there. David Waldstein: Cubs win their first World Series game since 1945! Does that officially take the curse off? Moving the game up to 7:08 was a very smart move by Major League Baseball. Very light rain fell, but there was never a question of playing through it. Who knows what it would be like in an hour from now? So, as the series moves to Wrigley Field for Game 3, it is going to feature Kyle Hendrick against Josh Tomlin. Hendrick is   with a 2. 24 earned run average at Wrigley Field. This year his record at home was   with a 1. 32 E. R. A.