The girl named Heaven lay curled up asleep next to her grandmother on the mattress they shared on the living room floor. The woman, Carmen Irizarry, had been the   ’s legal guardian for years, a   for the girl’s troubled mother. Now, Heaven’s protector was sick, breathing from an oxygen tank after a long hospital stay for acute lung disease. It was early in the morning of May 11, quiet in the   in the   apartment in the South Bronx. Just before 5 a. m. Henry Maldonado, Ms. Irizarry’s companion of 30 years, entered the room clutching a chef’s knife, the police said. In a fury, he thrust the knife at Heaven, then at Ms. Irizarry, back and forth, the blade cutting five times into Heaven’s torso and left leg. Her grandmother tried to block the blows. “Heaven,” she said, “go!” Those were Ms. Irizarry’s last words to her granddaughter, the girl told the police, and they very likely saved her from joining the grim tally of children killed by the people closest to them. In a city that has seen murder rates fall to historic lows, such deaths remain a stubborn strain of violence, one that too often has also exposed lapses in the child welfare system. In the most notorious of those cases, caseworkers missed persistent signs of physical abuse and children later died, inciting outrage and prompting reforms. The signs in Heaven Irizarry’s case were subtler in that her home was typical of many troubled households that child welfare workers encounter. She was loved, and had a solid guardian, but she was also surrounded by people addicted to drugs and entangled in the criminal justice system. Determining whether she was in danger was not a simple task. Two days after Heaven was born, her mother, Brenda Irizarry, handed the newborn over to her own mother. She had little choice: She was bound for prison on a parole violation, and child welfare officials were inquiring about the baby. That day in August 2006 was the first of three encounters New York City’s child welfare agency would have with the family. Each time, caseworkers either missed or discounted Mr. Maldonado’s history of domestic violence and drug abuse. Had she not escaped, Heaven might well have been the victim of the eighth murder recorded this year in the 40th Precinct, where The New York Times is reporting on every killing logged in 2016. Instead, it was her    grandmother whose name was recorded that morning. Since then, the precinct has endured several more homicides, and it now has 14 for the year, more than all but one other precinct in the city. As her grandmother crumbled under the knife strikes, Heaven ran barefoot out the door, blood soaking her pink nightie. Up two flights of steps, she went to an apartment directly above her grandmother’s at 700 East 156th Street in the St. Mary’s Park Houses. Loretta Fleming opened the door and Heaven stumbled in, hysterical. “My grandfather went crazy,” the girl said. Ms. Fleming, who often babysat for Heaven, called 911. Below, she could hear Mr. Maldonado knocking things over, breaking glass. “You are going to die,” she heard him scream. Then she smelled smoke. Mr. Maldonado, 55, was putting a lighter to papers and clothes, the police said. He had plunged the   knife into Ms. Irizarry more than two dozen times, breaking off the haft. Then he stabbed himself twice in the chest with a steak knife. Firefighters broke down the door and doused the flames. Officers used a stun gun to subdue Mr. Maldonado. When Sgt. Michael J. LoPuzzo, commander of the 40th Precinct detective squad, interviewed Mr. Maldonado eight days later in the burn unit at Jacobi Medical Center, he said all that he could remember was that he had tried to kill himself. Told that Ms. Irizarry had been hurt, Mr. Maldonado said he wanted a lawyer. Then he asked if Heaven was all right. “I said, ‘She’s fine, but you stabbed her five times,’” Sergeant LoPuzzo recalled. “So he goes, ‘What about my wife?’ I just shook my head. He goes, ‘What does that mean?’ I said, ‘She died and you killed her. ’” In hindsight, there were clues that despite Ms. Irizarry’s evident devotion to Heaven, the girl lived amid perilous instability, exposed to her mother’s   lifestyle and Mr. Maldonado’s violent mood swings. “This defendant has a history of violence against the deceased,” a Bronx assistant district attorney, Felicity Lung, said at a court hearing in June after Mr. Maldonado was charged with murder in Ms. Irizarry’s death. A year before Heaven was born, Mr. Maldonado attacked Ms. Irizarry on two consecutive days, once with his fists and once with a machete. He barred the door and cut the phone line during the second rampage, according to court records and interviews with witnesses. He was arrested and pleaded guilty to assault. Two years later, in October 2007, child welfare workers determined that Ms. Irizarry’s home was safe for her granddaughter when they conducted a   home study, after Ms. Irizarry had filed a petition for custody of Heaven. At the time, the agency could not readily examine criminal records. The court, relying on the caseworker’s report, appointed Ms. Irizarry the child’s legal guardian. Heaven’s father, who could not be located for comment, has not played a role in her life and never sought custody, several relatives said. Eight years later, the agency again investigated the family after Brenda Irizarry, Heaven’s mother, who lived in the apartment for long periods, assaulted a woman with a baseball bat as Heaven looked on. Ms. Irizarry pleaded guilty in September 2015 to   attempted assault, but was not sentenced to serve any time. Again, caseworkers determined that Carmen Irizarry was a competent guardian, even though she sometimes left the child with her daughter, two people familiar with the case said. That time, the caseworkers raised questions with teachers at Public School 157. Why had Heaven missed more than 10 days of school in the second grade? Her attendance worsened the next year, when she missed 26 as her grandmother’s health failed yet her teachers had never alerted child welfare officials, the people familiar with the case said. The city’s Education Department, citing privacy laws, declined to comment on why Heaven’s absences had not prompted a call to the authorities. Friends said Susie Irizarry  —   as the grandmother was known to them  —   was a vigilant guardian who doted on Heaven, and city officials confirm that there was never a complaint that Heaven was physically abused. In practice, Ms. Irizarry was not the only one watching Heaven. She worked long hours as a counselor for disabled adults and came home late most nights, neighbors and relatives said. It was Mr. Maldonado, or Heaven’s mother, who often cared for the girl after school. And a couple of afternoons a week, Heaven would stay with Ms. Fleming, the neighbor to whom she would flee the night her grandmother was killed. Brenda Irizarry, 44, has been arrested nine times since 2013, on charges including prostitution, petty larceny and drug possession. Henry Maldonado has at least 15 arrests dating back to 1984, on assorted charges, including carrying a knife, drug possession and armed robbery. In 2010, he pleaded guilty to selling pills he had obtained with Medicaid benefits to a black market drug dealer. In addition, a man who lived with Ms. Fleming, and who occasionally accompanied Heaven and Brenda Irizarry on outings to the park or the beach, was a sex offender who had served 21 years in connection with the rape and robbery of a    girl, law enforcement officials said. A year ago, the man, Morgan Shuler, 53, whose nickname was Moet, was arrested again, on charges that he had raped a woman in Heaven’s building. He pleaded not guilty. “Moet loved Heaven,” Ms. Fleming said. Since the murder, Heaven has been placed in the temporary custody of Mr. Maldonado’s estranged son, Henry Jr. who is seeking permanent custody, relatives said. The girl’s physical wounds have healed, and she is thriving in a new home and school in the North Bronx, law enforcement officials said. She attended a dance and gymnastics camp over the summer. The family took her   rafting in Pennsylvania and on a Florida vacation. For the first time in her life, Heaven has her own bed. Henry Maldonado pleaded not guilty at his court arraignment in June. His lawyer, Martin Goldberg, has not yet indicated whether he intends to offer a psychiatric defense. Gladys Carrión, the commissioner of the city’s Administration for Children’s Services, said state law precluded her from saying whether caseworkers had been aware of Mr. Maldonado’s previous attack on Ms. Irizarry or knew of the criminal backgrounds of other people in Heaven’s orbit. The agency does not ask the courts to put children in foster care solely because there are drug addicts or people with criminal records in a home, Ms. Carrión said. Indeed, many families the agency monitors in the South Bronx struggle with a combination of those problems. “We’d be removing many, many more children,” she said. Ms. Carrión said it was difficult for caseworkers to know about every person caring for a child. Investigations focus on the primary caregiver, in this case Carmen Irizarry, she said. The agency turns to foster care only as a last resort, usually in cases of physical abuse, molestation or extreme neglect, the commissioner said. “Our work is not an exact science,” she said. “There is no way to be able to predict 100 percent of the time what could happen, and when something could happen, and when is the right time to intervene. ” It is impossible to separate Mr. Maldonado from his daily landscape of methadone clinics, pill mills,   drug purchases and furtive highs in parks, alleys and stairwells. He was well known on the commercial strip of 149th Street near Third Avenue, with his long, graying hair pulled back in a ponytail, his “Death Before Dishonor” patch, the heavy rings on every finger, a cane in one hand, a knife in his pocket. “Outlaw forever, forever outlaw” was how he described himself on Facebook. Heroin and opioid abuse have swept into suburban and rural areas of the country, but the scourge has long devastated the South Bronx, where Mr. Maldonado and Ms. Irizarry lived. More people die of heroin and opioid overdoses in the Bronx than anywhere else in the city the rate exceeds 22 per 100, 000 residents. Few areas have as many methadone clinics as the Mott Haven and Melrose neighborhoods in the 40th Precinct. Mr. Maldonado had been an addict for decades, and he went daily to a methadone clinic on East 138th Street. Methadone treatment is intended to curb the craving for heroin, but the clinics also tend to be gathering spots for less resolute addicts who often lead one another to backslide, addiction experts said. After taking his dose, Mr. Maldonado would typically spend days stalking his next high: pills, PCP, cocaine and, once in a while, heroin, relatives and fellow addicts said. “He had a very bad drug problem,” his daughter, Evita Maldonado, said. “He would take whatever he can get his hands on. ” His heavy drug use had started in the early 1980s, around the time he met Ms. Irizarry in a salsa club near Bristow and Jennings Streets. Her name in those days was Carmen Rodriguez. She had been briefly married in the 1970s to Brenda’s father, Harry Irizarry, and kept his surname. Ms. Irizarry loved to dance, many of her friends recalled. Mr. Maldonado, who then went by the nickname Dee Jay, ran with young men who called themselves the Cool Brothers and provided security for clubs. Their relationship was tempestuous and revolved around drinking, drugs and nightclubs, friends said. “Henry was kind of a wild man,” said Jimmy Soriano, a friend from those days. “They used to get high like there was a shortage of drugs or something. ” Mr. Maldonado had a melodramatic streak and was quick to take offense, friends said. During one argument with Ms. Irizarry, while he was high on PCP, he lay in the street and asked someone to drive a car over him. Ms. Irizarry, too, fought addictions, to alcohol and crack cocaine. While she eventually won the struggle in the early 1990s, after the birth of her two younger daughters, Mr. Maldonado fell back into drug use again and again, storming out of   meetings. “He was like a stick of dynamite,” said Claude Hernandez, one of his counselors. In the early 1990s, Mr. Maldonado tried to jump off a roof and was hospitalized at Harlem Hospital, his lawyer, Mr. Goldberg, said. Another time, he tried to hang himself at St. Barnabas Hospital while undergoing detoxification. He never found the strength to quit, fellow addicts say. And when he was high, neighbors said, he often fought with Ms. Irizarry. “They were always arguing,” said Joy T. Madison, who lived below the couple for 15 years. “He was always drinking and drugging. Then he’d come home and pick a fight with her. ” The criminal justice system did little to help. Most of his offenses were reduced to misdemeanors, and Mr. Maldonado spent no time in state prison and only a few days in jail. Judges sometimes sentenced him to anger counseling or community service, but he was never compelled to enter drug treatment as part of a plea deal, court records show. In addition to using illegal drugs, he spent many days visiting doctors at three clinics. A psychiatrist at one prescribed him   and tranquilizers for bipolar disorder, said Mr. Goldberg, his lawyer. He was also seeing an anesthesiologist for back and knee pain. The treatment for those, Mr. Goldberg said, was more drugs: opioid pills and injections. Still, several of Mr. Maldonado’s friends said they could never have predicted that he would attack Ms. Irizarry and Heaven. He was often seen hugging and kissing Ms. Irizarry. He also seemed to revel in his role as grandfather, doting on Heaven and walking her to school. “To do what he did, he must have been in another world,” a close friend and fellow addict, Carlos Nuñez, said. “I still, to this day, cannot see it happening. ” Yet several friends said there were clear signs that Mr. Maldonado was falling apart in April, amid Ms. Irizarry’s illness. After a lifetime of smoking, she collapsed last November with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Five months later, she stopped breathing for a time and spent weeks at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center. While she lay in intensive care, Mr. Maldonado stepped up his use of illicit drugs and stopped taking   medication, friends and relatives said. He was smoking PCP and spoke of suicide. “He was bugging out,” Mr. Nuñez recalled. His grief proved violent. A neighbor who tried to visit Heaven’s mother, Brenda, in April said Mr. Maldonado punched him and chased him away with a sword. The same month, Mr. Maldonado attacked his daughter Evita with a cane after she confronted him about his drug use, she said in an interview. He also complained bitterly about Brenda’s presence in the apartment, blaming her for Ms. Irizarry’s condition and threatening to kill her, friends said. In late April Ms. Irizarry left the hospital, weak and unable to work. She asked Brenda to move out. “She said that things were going to change,” one of her closest friends, Nilsa Rivera, said. “She was not going to deal with anyone’s negativity or addictions. ” Mr. Maldonado, who did odd jobs for cash and recently started receiving disability benefits, had to divert more of his income toward their bills. Heaven, in a   conversation with Detective Javier Cordero, said Mr. Maldonado screamed, “No more bills,” as he attacked her and her grandmother. The night before that attack, a neighbor said, he was agitated and   in the hall outside Ms. Irizarry’s apartment. “You could see the stress on his face,” the neighbor, Steven Ocasio, said. “He said, ‘My demons is out tonight. ’” Mr. Goldberg, the defense lawyer, said Mr. Maldonado denied that he smoked PCP that evening. But he said that in the   hours, Mr. Maldonado had taken prescription drugs, among them Seroquel, Xanax, Ambien and OxyContin. “This was a suicide attempt,” Mr. Goldberg said. In the end, however, it was not Mr. Maldonado who died, but Ms. Irizarry. In a sense, she was a victim of her faith in him, the couple’s youngest daughter, Angelica Rosado, said. “She never gave up on him. ”