Under the cover of night, the family crowded into a wagon used to carry animals to flee the Nazi troops marching toward their hometown, Nalchik, in   Russia. It was 1942, and Polina Davydova’s father had returned from war wounded and requiring crutches to walk. He was now orchestrating the family’s escape farther south, to Derbent, a city on the Caspian Sea. Fifteen family members were to leave. But after the journey began, Ms. Davydova’s grandmother counted heads  —   someone was missing. They called each person by name. When they reached Polina, no one answered. The    girl was missing. The danger of turning back was so great that her grandmother suggested continuing without her. But her father refused. Throwing aside his crutches, he jumped from the wagon, hailing Soviet soldiers in trucks and begging them for a ride back to Nalchick. Just beyond the town’s borders, he found his daughter asleep on a suitcase. “I was my father’s favorite,” Ms. Davydova recently recalled, speaking in Russian through a translator. Ms. Davydova, now 77, often retells the family story of banding together. With a happy wistfulness, she speaks as though her father, mother, brothers, aunts, uncles, grandmother and cousins, who are all now gone, are back together, shuttling everyone toward safety. Inside her sparsely decorated apartment on Ocean Avenue near Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, the few items there remind her of her home country. A mezuza hangs by the door, providing a blessing for peace to all who enter, according to family tradition. The walls are lined with a hamesh, which includes a rock from Israel pictures of Jerusalem and needlework from before her eyesight worsened. On a warm September day, sitting at a table in her living room, Ms. Davydova pored over family photographs and Jewish history books, one of which includes the only remaining photograph of her father. Pointing to the picture, she recounts the atrocities that befell her hometown following the family’s escape to Derbent. Relatives who had refused to leave were tortured by fascists in their homes, forced by soldiers to walk over broken glass with their bare feet. “If we hadn’t left, maybe this would have happened to us,” Ms. Davydova said. “My father saved our lives. ” In January 1943, the Soviet Army pushed into Nalchik and freed the city, allowing her family to return home. The family’s furniture had been stolen, belongings destroyed. “But it didn’t matter,” Ms. Davydova said. “We had returned to our own roof, our own home. ” Still,   sentiment persisted. When factory workers began to cut through a   cemetery in 1969, Ms. Davydova’s father gathered other members of his synagogue to raise money to build a fence. Angered by the fence, the factory workers beat her father’s chest with a large metal cross, she said, puncturing a lung, which contributed to his death two months later. “There were many years of fear,” she said. “Such fear  —   you can’t imagine. ” For 31 years Ms. Davydova was a preschool teacher in Russia. Afraid of the continued   and that her    son, Boris, would be deployed to Afghanistan, Ms. Davydova and Boris sneaked out of Russia in 1992. They took only two suitcases, leaving everything else behind to give the illusion that they were only going away for a brief vacation. She arrived in the United States with only $25 and a tourist visa. Arriving as a guest of her brother, who was already in America, she settled in Brooklyn, but Ms. Davydova was unable to legally work while she waited five years to be granted political asylum status, which she received in 1997. She was granted citizenship five years after that, in 2002. Even after she received the status, Ms. Davydova, who does not speak English fluently, struggled to obtain steady work and started making frequent trips to the hospital because of declining health. The medical bills added up, and after several years of heart problems, she underwent heart surgery in 2008 for a blocked artery. She suffers from low blood pressure and frequent fainting spells. She pays $900 a month in rent, and receives $820 in Supplemental Security Income and $194 monthly in food stamps. Her family helps her pay the bills when they are able. Help also came in the form of the Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst, a beneficiary agency of   of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Marks JCH, a beneficiary agency of   of New York, provided Ms. Davydova with $1, 004 to cover one month’s rent and utilities in February 2016. “I gave my life to that country,” she said of Russia. “And I didn’t do anything in this country, but I want to kiss America because everything I have in this life comes from people in this country helping me. ”