I grew up in San Francisco, land of organic vegetables and vegan delights, before such things were so popular. From an early age, my parents sent me to school with     sandwiches,   eggs, and fresh fruit from the fields of the Central Valley. Although I had every opportunity to eat delicious and nutritious food, I never met a vegetable I liked. Every time I tried something green, I spit it out or threw it up. I was a theatrical kid: taking off all my clothes when I didn’t want to leave a friend’s house, throwing myself against walls screaming “Aya not tired! Aya happy! Aya bouncing off the walls!” when I didn’t want to go to bed. I was just as melodramatic with food, gagging loudly when I accidentally ran into a zucchini in a quiche, picking mushrooms out of pasta dishes and piling them on the side of my plate like dams, throwing out a perfectly good tuna melt if there were slivers of celery inside. What I could keep down was junk food. Lots and lots of junk food. My parents tried their best, but the only times I was truly happy were the two days a week I ate fast food for dinner, one day with my mom at McDonald’s and the other with my dad at Wendy’s. My parents were divorced I spent exactly half the week with each of them, alternating every Saturday. Neither parent knew about the other’s weekly convenience meal. Like most children of divorce, the only power I had was to keep their secrets and then exploit them when it suited my needs. I kept these   visits confidential, allowing both parents to think they were treating me to something special. I would sit in the car, beatifically chewing, fondling a Hamburglar toy or cheap movie   that had come with the food. By the time I got to middle school, I was a   sugar addict, using every dime of my weekly “lunch money” to buy candy at the Cala Foods in the Castro. I hid Skor bars and Skittles around my room like Claudia in “The   Club. ” I once woke up covered in melted chocolate from a forgotten stash in my pillowcase. In high school, I realized I needed more than just sugar to live, so every day I would buy and consume an entire bag of Goldfish (that elusive pizza flavor really is the best). Who needed multiple food groups? Artificial flavors? Count me in. Butylated hydroxyanisole? Yum! It wasn’t until I was 22 and newly graduated from college that I voluntarily chose to put a piece of lettuce in my mouth, then actually chewed and swallowed it. I was doing “The Winter’s Tale” and “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at the Great River Shakespeare Festival, playing Perdita and Hermia  —   two characters whose names, in retrospect, sound like leafy greens. I was a working actor making $250 a week, more money than I had ever seen, and I felt like a real adult. But adults cooked and had wine with dinner. When I was invited for meals at other company members’ small apartments, I didn’t want to embarrass them by refusing their food, or embarrass myself by smuggling in a box of Mike and Ikes and a bag of  . One night, someone made a salad. Just a salad. I stared at the plate  —   lettuce, onions, tomatoes  —   you know, salad. To me, that pile of fresh food was like a challenge out of “Fear Factor. ” For years, I had been telling everyone that I didn’t eat vegetables. I believed I hated them. I even took pride in the fact that I could fill my body with junk and not gain weight. I secretly, ridiculously, bizarrely thought my   stance made me intriguing. Unique. Idiosyncratic. But sometimes we tell stories about ourselves that aren’t true. Sometimes stories we think are fixed are actually flexible. I picked up a piece of   lettuce and ate it. I didn’t gag. To my surprise, I didn’t even dislike it. Tentatively, I began to try other vegetables, not just that night, but every time they were put in front of me. That Christmas, out for dinner with my mother, I lifted a fork of spinach to my mouth. She was so excited that she took a picture of it and made it her screen saver. Surprisingly, I found that I loved lots of vegetables and consequently, all kinds of foods. Broccolini was somehow less intimidating than the larger version: the gateway, broccoli. Zucchini wasn’t so bad after all. I realized that I had determined a defining characteristic based on who I was at 6. I had not tried again for 16 years. What else had I decided about myself that might not be true anymore? What had I decided about other people? That piece of lettuce was my first recognition that my identity was not set, but malleable. I used to think belly button piercings were cool. I used to date men who didn’t like me. I used to smoke. I had never wanted to get married I thought it wasn’t “who I was. ” But a few years ago, I found myself feeling otherwise. This didn’t mean I was a different person. But the narrative I had about myself had changed. Would I have learned this in other ways? Probably. But that bite opened me up to the possibility that change can happen even when you’re not trying you just have to stay curious. I’m still a picky eater. I don’t like pork chops,   chicken, mushrooms and celery. But now, I will at least try pretty much anything. I still love the occasional Taco Bell (two bean burritos, no red sauce, no onions) and, of course, an    burger. Yet my world is so much bigger because of that tiny piece of lettuce.