■ The General Services Administration disputed House Democrats on   Donald J. Trump’s need to sell off his Washington hotel. ■ Senators suggest Mr. Trump’s pick for national security adviser may not be eligible for a security clearance. ■ Senate Democrats to Betsy DeVos, Mr. Trump’s choice for education secretary: Pay the fines for your campaign finance violations. In a letter to the G. S. A. four ranking Democrats on the committees or subcommittee that oversee federal contracting and ethics rules said the agency that controls federal acquisition policy had informed the   that he must sell the Trump International Hotel, which he recently opened just blocks from the White House, or be in breach of his lease with the government the moment he is sworn into office. A spokeswoman for the G. S. A. came right back and said no, it hadn’t. That is quite a different characterization than the one House Democrats gave. They wrote: The problem is fairly straightforward. Mr. Trump will soon be in charge of the agency that issued the lease for the Old Post Office Building, which the   transformed unto a luxury hotel. He will also appoint the head of the G. S. A. To avoid such an obvious conflict, the lease that Mr. Trump signed states: “No   …     elected official of the government of the United States   …     shall be admitted to any share or part of this lease, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom[. ]” No word yet from Mr. Trump about how he will proceed. Not even the G. S. A. ’s deputy commissioner of public building services has heard a peep in response. But the G. S. A. is not exactly saying all is fine with the hotel. More like, let’s wait until Mr. Trump is actually sworn in. Two Democratic senators are raising a new issue about Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s choice for national security adviser: They are questioning whether he should be allowed to hold a security clearance, citing past investigations into charges that Mr. Flynn leaked classified information and into potential conflicts presented by a private intelligence firm he owns. His business, the Flynn Intel Group, has hazy ties to Middle Eastern countries and has appeared to lobby for the Turkish government, and that “creates potential for pressure, coercion and exploitation by foreign agents,” the two senators, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, said in a letter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Office of Personnel Management. The choice of Mr. Flynn, 57, a former director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, to serve as national security adviser has already faced widespread criticism. The job does not require congressional confirmation, and Mr. Flynn’s views on a range of subjects  —   from the threat posed by radical Islam and Iran to his penchant for conspiracy theories and his belief that the Obama administration has politicized the Central Intelligence Agency  —   tend to hew to the   fringes of Republican Party. He also took a paid speaking engagement last year with Russia Today, a television network funded by the Kremlin, and sat next to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia at the network’s lavish anniversary party in Moscow. In addition, Mr. Flynn was investigated, but cleared of any wrongdoing, in 2010 for sharing sensitive data with Pakistan about the Haqqani network, a faction of the Taliban, and for providing highly classified intelligence to British and Australian forces fighting in Afghanistan. But it is Mr. Flynn’s business relationships that remain unresolved. He has said he plans to step back from the Flynn Intel Group and let his son, Michael G. Flynn, run it, according to the senators’ letter, which was provided to The New York Times before its release on Wednesday. But that still does not settle the issue, the senators said. “Any share of partnership profits he obtains from the Flynn Intel Group that are derived from its representation of a foreign government would appear to be a violation of his obligation as a retired general to abide by the emoluments clause of the constitution,” Mr. Blumenthal and Ms. Shaheen wrote. Senate Democrats have found a new bit of leverage against Ms. DeVos, the Michigan Republican Party leader who will soon be considered for the cabinet post of education secretary: her unpaid fines for campaign finance violations. Senators Tom Udall of New Mexico, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Jeff Merkley of Oregon, Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont on Wednesday called on Ms. DeVos to pay $5. 3 million in fines and penalties owed by her All Children Matter political action committee for campaign finance violations dating to 2008. All Children Matter broke Ohio election law by illegally sending $870, 000 from its national PAC to its Ohio affiliate. The state of Ohio levied a record fine against the group. But the debt remains unpaid, the senators said. And now a confirmation vote looms. Two billionaire Silicon Valley executives, Elon Musk of SpaceX and Tesla, and Travis Kalanick of Uber, joined Mr. Trump’s roster of major American business advisers. The addition of Mr. Musk and Mr. Kalanick to Mr. Trump’s Strategic and Policy Forum bring big technology names to the inner circle of Mr. Trump’s transition that has had little engagement so far with Silicon Valley, except for the vocal support of the tech investor Peter Thiel. Mr. Musk and Mr. Kalanick engaged closely with the Obama administration, and their companies have increased their lobbying presence in Washington in recent years. Mr. Musk’s electric car company, Tesla, and his other firms, including Solar City and SpaceX, have been criticized by rivals for using federal and state subsidies. Uber, Mr. Kalanick’s   business, has roiled the taxi industry and fought municipalities around the world for new regulations that allow it to operate. The forum, which includes the heads of Walt Disney and General Motors, will be led by Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chairman and   of the investment firm the Blackstone Group, the Trump transition team announced Wednesday. The group is charged with providing Mr. Trump with their individual views on how regulations affect jobs and economic growth. Mr. Trump’s relationship with the tech sector has been tense. His election was greeted with dismay by many in Silicon Valley, who supported the Trans Pacific Partnership trade agreement, the internet policy of net neutrality, and an increase in the immigration of highly skilled workers. Mr. Trump has promised to unroll all of those efforts. Mr. Trump singled out Apple for manufacturing parts of their devices abroad. He also criticized Amazon for its dominance, and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, for owning The Washington Post, which he said had been unfair in its campaign coverage of him. The announcement that Mr. Musk and Mr. Kalanick were joining his business policy group came ahead of a meeting with several tech leaders at Trump Tower on Wednesday, including Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer. To Mr. Trump, the job of the president is to focus on jobs. Virtually everything else is subservient to that: diplomacy, science, conservation. On Wednesday, he officially tapped former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas to lead the Department of Energy, an agency whose primary tasks are to maintain the safety and reliability of the nation’s nuclear arsenal, counter nuclear proliferation, clean up Cold War radiation contamination and pursue basic science through the government’s premier research laboratories. His announcement, language errors and all, mentioned none of those: After a rally in Milwaukee on Tuesday night, he thanked Wisconsin and reiterated his jobs message. It is the prism through which his selection of the Exxon Mobil chief executive Rex W. Tillerson for secretary of state, the Oklahoma attorney general Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, and the   executive Andrew F. Puzder for labor secretary should be seen. Mr. Trump will meet on Wednesday with leaders of the technology industry, including Mr. Cook, Mr. Musk, Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sandberg. The agenda? Creating jobs. As Mr. Trump prepares to meet with Big Tech, 19 organizations from the music industry, including the Americana Music Association, sent him a letter expressing their concern about content theft over shared platforms. Mr. Trump is familiar with musicians’ concerns about using music without permission  —   he was criticized during his campaign by artists who did not want their songs played at his rallies. The monumental traffic jam at the George Washington Bridge may have made Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey lie low  —   and thwarted his chances of getting a cabinet post for him. But it appears to have not affected the prospects of a former Christie aide, Bill Stepien, who mentored the central actors of the “Bridgegate” scandal. Mr. Stepien is now the leading contender to be the White House political director. Two people close to the transition said that Mr. Stepien, who was hired by Mr. Trump’s    Jared Kushner, and his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, after the final campaign   has been repeatedly mentioned for the role, although the decision is not final. Bridgegate aside, Mr. Stepien is credited by some of Mr. Trump’s closest advisers with helping him improve his field organization in crucial states, and contributing to his victory. Mr. Trump has chosen (who else?) a television star to sing the national anthem at his inauguration on Jan. 20. Jackie Evancho, a    singer who gained popularity as a contestant on “America’s Got Talent,” said on Wednesday that it was “a great honor” to be asked to perform by Mr. Trump. Hers is the first name released by the inaugural planning committee for a day that typically features   star power. President Obama had Beyoncé perform the anthem in 2013, and asked other   artists like Aretha Franklin and James Taylor to deliver supplementary performances at his inaugurations. But there have been reports Mr. Trump is struggling to secure   talent after a bruising campaign in which the celebrity class largely turned out to support his opponent, Hillary Clinton. Ms. Evancho met Mr. Trump at    his resort in Palm Beach, Fla. in 2011, after she had finished as the   on “America’s Got Talent,” NBC’s hit series. She was 10 at the time. “I’m so excited it’s going to be awesome,” she said after making the announcement on NBC’s “Today” show. Ms. Evancho, of course, is too young to vote. As evidence mounts of a   effort by Russian intelligence agents to help elect not only Mr. Trump but also Republicans in Congress, Ms. Nancy Pelosi, of California, called for an independent investigation of foreign interference in the 2016 election. One day after top congressional Republicans said an investigation was necessary, Ms. Pelosi questioned their conviction. “That’s a statement of fact,” she told reporters. “That’s not a statement of action. ” She said a panel of outside investigators with subpoena power needed to be convened. “The people have a right to know why Republicans are afraid of the truth,” Ms. Pelosi said. Whether or not that is a good thing depends on your political affiliation: