AMSTERDAM  —   When he read the   sample of Astrid Holleeder’s memoir, “Judas,” in the spring, the Dutch publisher Oscar van Gelderen said he knew he had sensational material in his hands. A gangster boss who has become a celebrity criminal. A sister who knows his secrets, and fears for her life. A criminal justice system unable to keep him behind bars without her help. And the back story of a childhood that was “dysfunctional to the max,” Mr. van Gelderen said. Ms. Holleeder is the sister of Willem Holleeder, convicted of the 1983 kidnapping of the Dutch beer millionaire Freddy Heineken. He has been in and out of prison for years, but never for murder, though Ms. Holleeder calls him a “serial killer” in her book. Because she got close enough to tape him and agreed to testify against him, he is on trial again, this time facing six counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder. Mr. van Gelderen’s instincts were right. The book, released in early November, has been the No. 1 best seller in the Netherlands for eight straight weeks, according to the Dutch   association CPNB. Rights have already been sold for publication in Danish, German and Swedish, and Little, Brown and Company in New York bought worldwide   rights this month. “Judas” is not a recounting of Mr. Holleeder’s famous misdeeds, but the story of a childhood that included regular beatings by an alcoholic father, and, later, of Mr. Holleeder’s   hold on his family. “In the writing, there’s this strangling feeling of a guy who is controlling everybody,” Mr. van Gelderen said. Ms. Holleeder, 51, a successful   lawyer, describes in chilling detail how, a year after their father’s death in 1991, Mr. Holleeder was released from prison and took his place as the family abuser. She recounts how painful it was to interact with him after the murder of her    Cor van Hout, Mr. Holleeder’s longtime friend and   in the Heineken kidnapping. She contends that Mr. Holleeder ordered that killing, and plans to testify to that effect in court. Ms. Holleeder has been observing the success of her book from the secret location where she has been living under protection since February, after an inmate in a   prison described being contracted by Mr. Holleeder  to arrange for the killing of Ms. Holleeder their sister, Sonja Holleeder, who was married to Mr. van Hout and a Dutch crime reporter who helped Astrid establish contact with the police. (Another brother, Gerard, has remained uninvolved in the case.) Astrid Holleeder agreed to speak with The New York Times only from a separate, secure location, and she said that she did not think she would ever be safe as long as her brother was alive. “He will not rest until we’re dead,” she said. “It’s about his pride. He cannot let his little sister take him down. ” Ms. Holleeder said that she wrote “Judas” as a kind of “last will and testament” for her daughter, who is 31 and has two children of her own. She said that testifying in court during the pretrial phase of the current case had so far felt ineffectual. (The trial is scheduled to begin in early 2017.) “I want to tell everything, but they haven’t given me the chance yet,” she said. “The book is just about how I feel, how we grew up, what in fact made me and my brother into the opponents that we are now. ” Even when the   manuscript was finished, Lebowski Publishers did not provide details of its contents to bookstores, for fear that Mr. Holleeder would try to prevent its release. But after the publisher disclosed information on a   television talk show the day before the book’s publication, the first print run of 80, 000 copies sold out immediately. About 400, 000 copies have been bought so far  —   a milestone in a country of about 17 million, where sales of 5, 000 copies are considered strong. “Judas” is a narrative in the present, with flashbacks to the Holleeders’ childhood. The account begins in January 2012, when Mr. Holleeder was released from prison after serving six years of a   sentence for extortion. Astrid Holleeder said she acted as a kind of consigliere for her brother  —   advising him on legal matters, arranging his safe house when he got out of prison and serving as a confidante  —   in an effort to get close enough to obtain material that she could share with the police. She started wearing a wire in 2013, and ultimately recorded hundreds of hours of conversations with her brother. Although the author describes the admiration she felt for her brother as a little girl, her adult attitude toward him is clear from an early passage in which she describes picking him up from a prison in Vught the last time he was released. “During his detention, my brother developed a serious heart condition,” she writes. “He barely survived, but he did because, as my mother used to say, a weed doesn’t perish. I was surprised he had a heart at all. ” Mr. Holleeder’s lawyers, Sander Janssen and Robert Malewicz, criticized the timing of the book’s publication. Mr. Holleeder has been back in the   prison in Vught since December 2014, but he has appeared regularly at pretrial hearings. “It’s not very favorable for any criminal case to have a book like this come out during the proceedings,” Mr. Janssen said by telephone. “You never know if a witness will tell you something because he or she knows about it, or because he or she read it in a book. ” Franklin Wattimena, a spokesman for the public prosecutor’s office, said that it learned about “Judas” only the day before it was released. The judges who will decide the case have said that they have not, and will not, read the book unless it is submitted as evidence. (There are no juries in the Netherlands trials are run, and decided, by three judges.) As for Mr. Holleeder, he reacted to the book with a brief statement for the panel of judges. “I have not terrorized my family,” he said. “If this book had not been about me, I would have been as shocked as everybody else is. What Astrid said is not the truth. ” Mr. van Hout, the   turned foe, once called Mr. Holleeder “Judas,” which inspired the title of the best seller. But today, Ms. Holleeder says she feels it is she who betrayed her brother. She said that she “hates” herself for turning against her brother, and that, in spite of everything, she still loves him. She said she knew, however, that it was necessary to speak out, “to end the problem for everyone else. ” “I betrayed him,” Ms. Holleeder said of testifying against him. “He trusted me with his life, he would tell me everything, and I was the only thing he had when he got out of prison. ” When the news broke that she would testify, she said she thought: “No, he cannot survive this. He’s fighting back, of course, but I don’t think he can win this time. ”