In the latest twist in a case that has been full of them, the Connecticut Supreme Court ruled on Friday that the murder conviction of Michael C. Skakel, who was found guilty in 2002 of bludgeoning a teenage neighbor with a golf club, should be reinstated. The court said in making its ruling that Mr. Skakel’s original lawyer had, despite accusations to the contrary, represented him effectively. The decision could send Mr. Skakel back to prison to finish a prison term of 20 years to life. He had spent more than a decade behind bars before he was released in 2013 when a judge vacated his original sentence. Over the years, Mr. Skakel, a nephew of Ethel Kennedy, has attracted the attention of gossip columnists, TV crews and magazine writers as his case slowly moved through nearly every branch of Connecticut’s judicial system. Though the neighbor, Martha Moxley, was killed in Greenwich in 1975, when she and Mr. Skakel were both 15, Mr. Skakel was not arrested until he was in his late 30s. He was convicted after a   trial that brought to light details including his drinking and drug use. But in October 2013, 38 years after Ms. Moxley was found dead, lying face down beneath a pine tree on her family’s estate, a Connecticut judge vacated the guilty verdict, ruling that Mr. Skakel’s trial lawyer, Michael Sherman, had not provided effective representation. At that time, Mr. Skakel and his new legal team argued that Mr. Sherman had failed to implicate his brother, Thomas Skakel, in the murder, one of their main arguments at trial failed to adequately pursue an alibi defense and failed to rebut the testimony of some former schoolmates who said that Mr. Skakel had admitted to the killing. In subsequent arguments, Mr. Skakel’s lawyers also attacked Mr. Sherman for delivering a poor closing argument and for having a conflict of interest in representing him related to how he billed Mr. Skakel. But in a   decision issued on Friday, the Supreme Court said that Mr. Sherman’s legal work was not deficient. Mr. Skakel “had the burden to present evidence demonstrating that Sherman’s investigation was constitutionally inadequate,” the court wrote. “In the absence of this evidence, we must presume that Sherman performed competently. ” Prosecutors have not responded to requests about the next steps for the case. In a telephone interview on Friday evening, Mr. Sherman said that while it was “a comfort to see that the judges did not feel I was responsible,” the reinstatement of the guilty verdict was not “a situation where I’m happier than hell and kicking my heels in joy. ” He maintained that Mr. Skakel had been wrongfully convicted. “It happened on my watch, and I’m responsible for that,” Mr. Sherman said, adding: “I can’t imagine that any judge or prosecutor will send him back to jail after the odyssey he’s been on. ” Robert F. Kennedy Jr. an environmental lawyer and a cousin of Mr. Skakel’s who wrote a book last year making a case for Mr. Skakel’s innocence, called the court’s decision “a horrible, cataclysmic miscarriage of justice. ” “I don’t think he’s O. K. going back to prison for a crime he didn’t commit while the real murderers are on the street because the State of Connecticut can’t admit it made a horrible mistake by convicting him in the first place,” Mr. Kennedy said. The Supreme Court’s ruling was in essence a defense of Mr. Sherman’s defense of Mr. Skakel. It pulled apart the lower court’s decision to vacate the conviction point by point. According to the ruling, Mr. Sherman had a threefold strategy at Mr. Skakel’s trial. Mr. Sherman tried to establish an alibi, saying that Mr. Skakel was at a cousin’s house watching Monty Python on television at the time of the murder. He tried to discredit witnesses who had gone to school with Mr. Skakel and who had said Mr. Skakel told them he was involved in the killing. And he presented evidence that the family’s   tutor, Kenneth Littleton, might have committed the murder. Mr. Skakel’s current lawyers did not return phone calls seeking comment.