Add another mystery to the murky case of the disappearing traffic lanes at the George Washington Bridge: Who is John Doe and why is he putting up such a struggle to shield his identity? A man known only by that alias has hired a lawyer from a prominent Manhattan firm to plead with two federal courts in five days to keep his name out of the impending prosecution of the alleged criminal conspiracy known broadly as Bridgegate. So far, he is winning the fight for anonymity. On Tuesday, an appellate court in Philadelphia blocked the scheduled release of a list of people who prosecutors believe were somehow involved in the scheme to tie up traffic at the New Jersey end of the bridge in September 2013. The court set a hearing on John Doe’s appeal for June 6. So, the riddle of John Doe’s identity and motivation will keep the politically curious guessing for a few more weeks, at the least. Who, they wondered, could have played a notable role in the highly publicized scheme and still hope to avoid being linked to it? And why did he wait until the eve of the scheduled release of the list of “unindicted  ” to try to suppress it? “There are no coincidences in New Jersey politics,” said John S. Wisniewski, a Democratic state assemblyman who was   of a legislative committee that investigated the   scheme. “I’m certain that there is an important reason for whoever John Doe is to have retained counsel, a reason that only recently came up. ” Whoever he is, Mr. Wisniewski said, John Doe had the resources and connections to hire Jenny Kramer, a former federal prosecutor who is now with the Chadbourne  Parke law firm. Ms. Kramer filed a motion in federal court in Newark last week, arguing that her client would be “publicly branded a felon” by his inclusion on the list, even though he has not been charged with a crime. Prosecutors have not said how many names are on the list, but they have obtained indictments against only three former allies of Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, suspected of plotting to tie up traffic in Fort Lee, N. J. They contend that the three  —   Bill Baroni, David Wildstein and Bridget Anne Kelly  —   sought to punish the borough’s mayor, Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, for declining to endorse Mr. Christie for   in 2013. Mr. Baroni was the governor’s top executive appointee at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the bridge. Mr. Wildstein, who pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy last May, was a deputy to Mr. Baroni at the agency. Mr. Baroni and Ms. Kelly, who was a deputy chief of staff to Mr. Christie, are scheduled to stand trial in September on nine counts, including conspiracy to commit fraud. Mr. Wildstein has stated that there is evidence that Mr. Christie knew about the scheme while it was being carried out, but the governor has said he found out about it afterward and quickly informed the public. Unless those denials have been refuted by prosecutors, Mr. Wisniewski said, “it probably is unlikely that the governor is on this list. ” He declined to speculate about John Doe’s identity, but trying to puzzle it out has been something of a parlor game among those who have continued to follow the case. Holly Schepisi, a Republican state assemblywoman who was on the committee with Mr. Wisniewski, called it a “Bridgegate fantasy league” that had people swapping rosters of possibilities and wishes. “There are some people out there who still hold out hope, for whatever diabolical reason, that John Doe is somebody very senior,” Ms. Schepisi said. Brigid Harrison, a professor of political science at Montclair State University, said in an interview on Tuesday that there was “widespread speculation” that John Doe could be Mr. Christie. “It is someone who has an enormous amount to lose,” Ms. Harrison said. “Who has the most to lose?” Ms. Harrison noted that Donald J. Trump, the Republican candidate for president, was scheduled to attend a rally in New Jersey on Thursday that will raise money to pay for Mr. Christie’s aborted presidential campaign. “So there is at least some advantage he has gained from the delay of this,” she said, referring to the governor. But Assemblywoman Schepisi said she was reasonably certain that John Doe was not Mr. Christie, but another current or former public official or government employee. Beyond that, she said, she had heard plenty of guesses, but “everybody’s speculating. ” Susan Wigenton, the judge in the United States District Court in Newark who denied John Doe’s motion to keep the list confidential, said that the public’s right to know outweighed the interests of privacy of the people on the list, for “whom the government has sufficient evidence to designate as having joined the conspiracy. ” Ms. Schepisi said she thought John Doe had a strong argument against being implicated in a conspiracy without being charged and having a chance to defend himself. She said she imagined he had good reason to want to keep his presence on that list a secret. “When people hear the phrase ‘unindicted ’ the implication is no longer, unfortunately, O. K. you didn’t commit a crime it is, you very probably did something criminal and somehow you skated,” Ms. Schepisi said. “It’s like having a big scarlet letter put across your chest for the rest of your life. ”