MEXICO CITY  —   It is a simple sculpture: 64 concrete pyramids that stand in a perfect circle around     acres of rippling, black volcanic rock. Known as “Espacio Escultórico” (“Sculptural Space”) the sculpture was inaugurated in 1979 here on the campus of the National Autonomous University of Mexico. It is considered one of the most important pieces of land art in Mexico, a tranquil oasis in a chaotic city. But the recent construction of a white   building nearby has prompted a furious protest that pits the university’s needs against Mexico’s cultural heritage. The campaign against the building, which looms over the   pyramids from less than a   away, has drawn hundreds of artists, architects and intellectuals from Mexico and beyond. A change. org petition to protect the work has gathered more than 30, 000 signatures. Prominent cultural figures, including the writer Elena Poniatowska, have published letters in the press or posted video statements on Facebook defending the sculpture about 300 students and faculty members of the university’s architecture school signed a letter to the head of the department in April calling for the building to be modified or demolished. For the artists, the building, which belongs to the social science faculty, ruins the line of the sky against the flat tops of the pyramids. “All the great works of land art  —   the horizon is how they function,” the artist Anish Kapoor said in an interview at the site last week. Anything that intrudes on the art, he said, “takes away some of the poetic, unnameable qualities of the work. ” About two dozen artists have said they would be willing to auction works to pay to move the building  —   among them Mr. Kapoor, a show of whose work opened at the University Museum of Contemporary Art here on Saturday. “You can’t move the lava. You can’t move the landscape,” said Pedro Reyes, a sculptor who is leading the campaign to dismantle Building H, as it is known. “So you have to move the building. ” Some students raised concerns last year about several construction projects on campus, including Building H, but it was not until Mr. Reyes visited the sculpture in February that he saw the finished building and began campaigning. Much land art, in which the landscape is integral to the work, is remote and can be huge, such as Robert Smithson’s “Spiral Jetty,” on the shore of Great Salt Lake in Utah, and Michael Heizer’s vast, unfinished sculpture “City,” in the Nevada desert. Patricia Martín, an independent curator in Mexico City, said Building H was typical of rampant Mexican construction where “people do not make the effort to think” what the impact will be. The ruckus “raises a public debate about how to think about space, how to think about art, how a building looks,” she said, adding, “That is healthy. ” But the university says it will not destroy a building that it paid over a $1 million for and that is being used for classes and research. Marcos Mazari Hiriart, director of the architecture faculty, said the construction was a “mistake” and had “damaged” the horizon of “Espacio Escultórico. ” But the problem could be remedied by camouflaging the building, not demolishing it, he said. Besides, Mr. Mazari said, the artwork, which stands in a nearly   ecological reserve that occupies a third of the university campus, was not intended to be protected in perpetuity from intrusion by other construction. “Is it urban art or land art?” he said. Arguing that the land around the work only became a reserve  —   and a serendipitous buffer  —   a few years after the sculpture was made, he said, “It became land art over time. ” Building H does not break any regulations, said Sergio Boeta Angeles, a lawyer in Mexico City who specializes in cultural heritage. “There is no legal basis for not building it,” he said. “It’s a moral question. ” The sculpture was a collaboration among six Mexican artists: Helen Escobedo Manuel Felguérez Mathias Goeritz Manuel Hernández Suárez, known as Hersúa Federico Silva and Enrique Carbajal, known as Sebastián. Its centerpiece is a naturally formed, jagged mound of    lava rock that seems still to be bubbling from the earth. Around that stand the pyramids, evenly spaced with a slightly wider gap at the four cardinal points. The work is surrounded by scrubland filled with indigenous plants. Building H is not the only construction that is visible, but it is taller than most and on higher ground. In a city struggling with violence, pollution and chaotic planning, a fuss over one building could seem trivial, Mr. Reyes said. But it is all the more reason to respect the sculpture, he said. “Mexico needs peace,” he said. “This is the most peaceful place in Mexico City. ” Allowing the building to stay would set a poor precedent, some said. “If they leave that building there, who knows what else they’ll build,” said Cesar Cervantes, 27, a geography student who was sitting on the edge of the circle last week. Mr. Mazari said that the university would hold a workshop this month to discuss remedies for Building H  —   painting it blue, growing plants over it, planting trees to hide it, covering it with mirrors. The university has formed a committee to monitor campus construction, he said. But the building’s opponents insist the building must go, or its top few floors should be removed so it is no longer visible from the sculpture, a remedy Mr. Mazari calls impractical. If money is the main obstacle, the artists say, they will foot the bill. “Works like this represent what can be done,” Mr. Kapoor said. “They must be looked after. ” The fight against the building was “a battle for the poetic spirit of the work,” he said, adding, “We lose that in our culture, we lose everything. ”