Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking seven days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. Good morning. A terrible week comes to an end with an awful anniversary, of last year’s massacre at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S. C. in which a gunman killed nine black parishioners during a prayer service. Hatred dogs us still, here and across the globe, offering violence, delivering grief. Hope, for many these days, is thin on the ground. Cooking can help. I think it can. Just follow a recipe. The process is mindful and therapeutic at once, a form that allows you to get outside your racing thoughts and self in order to provide for others. And providing for others is good it counteracts those who would take away from others instead. Maybe, anyway? It’s worth a shot. It’s what we can do. Spend tomorrow baking pies, or assembling a paella, or roasting chickens, or smoking beef ribs, and see what happens. You could make soft serve ice cream for the kids or the people in your life who act like kids. (You don’t need an ice cream maker.) You could make lobster mac and cheese, just because. Or   soft pretzels. Or   banana chocolate muffins. Or loaded nachos. How about a strawberry fool? You could make something you’ve made forever, a familiar kata, performed a thousand times. Or you could make something new and difficult, and surrender yourself to the magic of transformation: oats into granola basil into pesto pig’s feet and Madeira into the fantastical jellied pork stock the chef Fergus Henderson calls trotter gear. Perhaps it’s a weekend to make asparagus soup. Or a buttery breakfast casserole. You could make crab Newburg. Or some   spotted dog. There are thousands of other recipes to choose from on Cooking. Browse them for inspiration, then save the ones you like to your recipe box. Cook them, and revel in the peace that activity can bring. When you’re done, you can rate your work and, if you like, you can leave a note on the recipe to help yourself in the future, or to help others as they cook. As always, we’ll be standing by to help if you run into trouble with the technology or the recipes. We’re at cookingcare@nytimes. com. Outside of the Times bubble, you can find me on Twitter and Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram, where I use and monitor the hashtag #NYTCooking. Now, here’s a podcast to round us out, from Gastropod: “Who Invented the Cherry Tomato?” Have a great weekend.