Organizers of the United States Open said Monday they regretted the “distraction caused” by their decision to wait until after the final round to issue a   penalty to the eventual champion, Dustin Johnson. A day after the lack of an immediate ruling created uncertainty for hours in the climactic moments of the country’s national championship, the United States Golf Association, however, did not back down from its decision to enforce the penalty based on its examination of the various factors when Johnson’s golf ball moved as he was preparing to putt on the fifth green Sunday. Although Johnson had consulted with a rules official on the green after his ball moved and had been allowed to continue without penalty, he was informed by U. S. G. A. officials on the 12th tee that after video review, he might still be penalized a stroke. That set in motion a situation rarely seen in sports, in which Johnson’s actual score was not known even as the competition was winding down. Johnson ended up building a large lead over the rest of the field, which assured him victory as he putted out on the 18th green for his first major championship. Johnson was then assessed the penalty but still won by three strokes. “Upon reflection, we regret the distraction caused by our decision to wait until the end of the round to decide on the ruling,” the U. S. G. A. said its statement. “It is normal for rulings based on video evidence to await the end of a round, when the matter can be discussed with the player before the score card is returned. While our focus on getting the ruling correct was appropriate, we created uncertainty about where players stood on the leader board after we informed Dustin on the 12th tee that his actions on the fifth green might lead to a penalty. “This created unnecessary ambiguity for Dustin and the other players, as well as spectators on site, and those watching and listening on television and digital channels. ” The U. S. G. A. also indicated it might handle the same situation differently in the future. “We will assess our procedures for handling video review, the timing of such, and our communication with players to make sure that when confronted with such a situation again, we will have a better process,” the U. S. G. A. said. The U. S. G. A.’s handling of the episode, including the decision not to make a definitive ruling in the midst of the competition, induced harsh criticism on Twitter from some of the most prominent players in golf. Among them, the defending United States Open champion Jordan Spieth called what was transpiring “a joke. ” But the U. S. G. A. defended the decision to impose the penalty. “Our officials reviewed the video of Dustin on the fifth green and determined that based on the weight of the evidence, it was more likely than not that Dustin caused his ball to move,” the organization said in its statement. “Dustin’s putter contacted the ground at the side of the ball, and almost immediately after, the ball moved. ”