MOSCOW  —   Pavel V. Dmitrichenko, the dancer released from prison after being convicted of engineering an acid attack that exposed the hidden intrigues of the Bolshoi Ballet, asked to meet outside the theater where he had so spectacularly fallen from grace, and where he already envisions his return. With the famous facade glowing pink in the soft light of a summer evening, Mr. Dmitrichenko looked around and pronounced himself entirely at home. “I always forget the bad things,” he said at the start of a   interview recently, his first since being released. “It seems like I was working here just yesterday. Those years passed as a single bad dream. ” In December 2013, Mr. Dmitrichenko was sentenced to six years in prison for plotting an attack on Sergei Filin, the Bolshoi’s artistic director, in January of that year. Last month he was released early for good behavior. The dancer, 32, with green eyes and an unruly shock of dishwater blond hair, looked fit if somewhat chunkier than in his halcyon days as a Bolshoi soloist. He gained fame for playing villains including Ivan the Terrible in the ballet of the same name and Von Rothbart in “Swan Lake. ” He said he was drawn to the type. “Those roles were very strong in terms of drama and interesting to play,” he said. “You also have to demonstrate your power, your energy and your character. It is very different from playing just some prince. ” Ivan the Terrible, he added, gets a bad rap, anyway. To hear Mr. Dmitrichenko tell it, so did he when he was cast as the evil mastermind of one of the biggest scandals in the 240 years of Bolshoi history. “I don’t admit my guilt,” he said. “I didn’t during the court proceedings, and I still don’t. ” Prosecutors painted Mr. Dmitrichenko as upset that Mr. Filin had denied important roles to Anzhelina Vorontsova, his girlfriend. Mr. Dmitrichenko had also expressed public frustration over the low pay and poor treatment of dancers under Mr. Filin. During the trial, he and his lawyer tried to depict the attack as a simple warning run amok. Mr. Dmitrichenko told the court that he had asked Yuri Zarutsky, an acquaintance and a former convict, to “knock around” Mr. Filin, but maintained that Mr. Zarutsky took it upon himself to embellish the assault by dousing Mr. Filin’s face with acid. Mr. Zarutsky was sentenced to 10 years for conspiring to cause bodily harm. Mr. Dmitrichenko now labels the whole affair pure fiction. It was all a plot, he said, by Mr. Filin and his allies in the Bolshoi to remove him from the scene because he was vocal about their corrupt practices and would not be intimidated. The revisions spill out in dizzying, not to say implausible, succession: He never spoke to Mr. Zarutsky about Mr. Filin. He denied that he admitted as much in court. Ms. Vorontsova was not his girlfriend. He even raises doubts that there was any acid attack since Mr. Filin has little noticeable scaring and can drive, despite the seeming lack of an iris in one eye that he keeps hidden behind sunglasses. “That story is entirely invented” by enemies, he said. “The whole story is about a battle for power something done from fear that I had uncovered their illegal activities. My mistake was making a public statement about this. ” He does not want to dissect the details, preferring to concentrate on his hopes to return to the stage, preferably at the Bolshoi. There was no barre behind bars, but he tried to stay in shape. His first cell was so constricted that he was limited to a few calisthenics like leg lifts and situps, he said. He did not go outside for an entire year. For the rest of the time things were better. He had a narrow space of about 10 square meters (about 108 square feet) where he could run back and forth. Pirouettes were out of the question. Instead he pumped iron. Being a ballet star did not earn him distinct treatment from the guards or fellow inmates. Mr. Dmitrichenko said he was locked up with a varied cast of characters including businessmen, actors and even a circus performer. He started to rehearse again almost as soon as he was released. The first 30 minutes felt a little odd, he said, but then the training that started when he was 6 (he is the son of two dancers) kicked in and everything felt normal. Vladimir Urin, the new director of the Bolshoi, appointed in the wake of the scandal, told the Russian media that Mr. Dmitrichenko could audition like anybody else if he wanted to return to the company. The theater is evidently trying put the scandal in the past. The Bolshoi held a news conference in March to unveil a sweeping history of the institution in Russian and English commissioned from the New   writer Solomon Volkov to mark its 240th anniversary. The documentary “Bolshoi Babylon” was released in December. The scandal inevitably prompted questions. Reporters asked Mr. Urin if he had commissioned the book and approved the film in an attempt at distraction from the scandal. “It is not true that the sly director made such cunning plans,” he said, while stressing that he wanted to make the cultural powerhouse more open. It is not clear, though, that the two main characters have entirely left the stage. Awkwardly, Mr. Dmitrichenko and Mr. Filin still live in the same Moscow apartment building where the attack occurred. But Mr. Dmitrichenko said they had not encountered each other. Mr. Filin was dismissed as artistic director earlier this year, then given a position as head of a Bolshoi workshop fostering young choreographers. In an interview in May, he said he would be concerned for his safety if Mr. Dmitrichenko were freed. His lawyer went to court to try to have the release rescinded. Other dancers and the film portray Mr. Filin as a slippery character, while Mr. Dmitrichenko was sometimes described as overly emotional. Both men appear resigned to the idea that they might work under the same roof again. Mr. Dmitrichenko said the main point was that he emerged from prison with his dignity intact and hoped that the whole episode would just burnish his audience appeal. “I think people will want to see someone who dances again after living in such circumstances,” he said.