Over 300 million people visited the national parks system in 2015  —   and many left with indelible memories. In anticipation of the park system turning 100 in August, we asked five writers  —   three novelists, a memoirist and a poet  —   to recount times when a national park left a mark on their lives. I would have opted to give the bison a wide berth even if the man who worked the entrance gate at Badlands National Park had not handed me a flier warning me to do so. Bison have charged several people, the flier exclaimed in bold text beneath an illustration of a man somersaulting into the air above a figure of an enraged bison. It was 1994, before selfies and cellphones  —   but not before people were idiots in the wild. I was 25 and plenty idiot too, though not in this one regard. I had grown up in northern Minnesota, where I’d learned early to respect the boundary between humans and undomesticated animals. Bison  —   their scientific name is, emphatically, bison bison bison  —   are the largest terrestrial animal in North America. The biggest weigh upward of 2, 000 pounds. Faster and more agile than their bulk would indicate, they can run about 35 miles an hour. They’re   too. Shaggy,   beasts with curved horns that frame their huge angular heads, American bison have always struck me, at least outwardly, as the heavy metal rockers of the animal kingdom. It’s an impression that only intensified when I had my first look at them up close a   after my friend Aimee and I had entered the park. A few grazing near the road raised their grand heads to watch us as we passed in Aimee’s Honda: their faces, primordial their dark eyes, indecipherable their ability to flatten our little car if they felt like it, absolute. To see them so close felt like a lucky stroke. Millions once roamed the continent, but by 1900 their numbers had dwindled to the low hundreds in the wild. Because of conservationists  —   indeed, because of the existence of the national parks  —   the bison had persevered. To catch a glimpse of them on the prairie was to bear witness to their survival. The sun was setting by the time we reached the Sage Creek campground, a waterless patch near the park’s designated wilderness area at the end of a gravel road. All around us the world was magic, the way the world is always magic at sunset in wild places, but it seemed especially so that night, the grasslands giving way to the ancient hills and rocky buttes beyond. We pitched our tent in the fading light. When I stepped out of our tent the next morning, there was a bison grazing about 50 feet away. He lifted his head in my direction and  —   for a reason I do not know except to say I have always been friendly to a fault  —   I said, in a tone altogether too cheery, “Good morning, Mr. Buffalo. ” At the sound of my voice, the bison began to walk toward me. He did not run, but neither did he dally. His gait had the determined and mildly seething air of a teacher who was marching you straight to the principal’s office, except in this case, the bison was marching himself. To me. I bolted into the tent and zipped the mesh door closed, whispering frantically to Aimee, who shushed me. In silence we knelt    in the center of the tent and looked into each other’s eyes beseechingly. Soon, the bison appeared in close profile out the mesh window at the back end of the tent. He was so near we could hear his breath and the dull thump of his hooves. He began to circle, passing by our door, then disappearing, then reappearing. It seemed clear this circling was the preamble to something worse. Though we were both near weeping, we were also suppressing laughter, each of us horrified by the grim possibility not only that we’d be trampled to death by a bison bison bison, but that we would also forever be known as those dumb people who do dumb things at national parks and then end up being referred to in categorical terms on informational fliers handed out to visitors. It just so happens that Aimee was wearing a pen on a cord around her neck. I had the maddest urge to use it to write at least a line in my own defense  —   to say I hadn’t done anything wrong. All I had done was say “Good morning, Mr. Buffalo!” I’d wanted only to pass through this beautiful place and leave the wild things undisturbed and unperturbed. I hadn’t meant to cause any trouble. Instead I took the pen, still attached to Aimee’s neck, and wrote “I’m sorry” on my hand and showed it to her. She nodded, apology accepted, the tears from her suppressed   terror still pooling in her eyes. We waited in silence many more long minutes, until we mustered the courage to peek out of our tent to see the bison was gone, somewhere in the midst of those ancient hills. We gathered up our things and ran to the car.