WASHINGTON  —   Hillary Clinton on Friday sought to explain her recent mischaracterization of the F. B. I. investigation into her private email server, saying she “may have  ” in her remarks during a television interview on Sunday when she asserted that the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, had called her statements about her private email servers “truthful. ” Mrs. Clinton made the remarks while taking her most extensive questions from journalists in months  —   after going more than 200 days without holding a formal news conference. She has been under fire from Republicans and others since her remarks Sunday on Fox News about her use of a private email server as secretary of state and the resulting F. B. I. investigation. While Mr. Comey did not recommend charges in the case, he said Mrs. Clinton had been “extremely careless” in her use of a private email server and contradicted statements she made about her handling of her email. In her remarks here before the National Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Hispanic Journalists, Mrs. Clinton tried to explain the discrepancy with what Mr. Comey actually said. “I was pointing out in both of those instances that Director Comey had said that my answers in my F. B. I. interview were truthful,” she said. “That’s really the bottom line here. ” Mrs. Clinton reiterated her explanation that the classified emails the F. B. I. had identified as having passed over her private server were not marked classified at the time. The explanation did not appease Republicans. “It’s not hard to see why she hasn’t held a press conference in 244 days,” said the Republican National Committee chairman, Reince Priebus. “Hillary Clinton is once again proving herself incapable of telling the truth. ” During her remarks, Mrs. Clinton said she took “seriously” the problems she has had winning voters’ trust. Questioned about why a majority of voters do not trust her, Mrs. Clinton referred to her high approval ratings when she was secretary of state and a senator from New York. “Were 67 percent of the people in New York wrong? Were 66 percent of the American public wrong?” she asked. “Just maybe, when I’m actually running for a job, there is a real benefit to those on the other side with trying to stir up as much trouble as possible. ” And she explained that the economic frustration driving many of Donald J. Trump’s supporters should be taken seriously. When asked about what Mr. Trump’s millions of supporters, who are often drawn to language she and others have called racist and sexist, says about the electorate, Mrs. Clinton said that while some people were backing the businessman because of his “bigotry,” she acknowledged that many were motivated by economic hardships. “We have to recognize that of course some of the appeal is xenophobic and racist and misogynistic and offensive,” she said. “We have to acknowledge that  —   but let’s not lose sight of the real pain that many of Americans are feeling because the economy has left them behind. ” Mrs. Clinton also criticized Mr. Trump on Friday as someone who would be a dangerous president and stressed that if elected, she would work on issues related to systemic racism and the economy that often hit black and Hispanic communities the hardest. “He is harkening back to the most shameful chapters of our history and appealing to the ugliest impulses of our society,” she said. “We need to stand up as a country and say that Donald Trump doesn’t represent who we are and what we believe. ” Mrs. Clinton also vowed to push hard to pass a comprehensive immigration overhaul bill with a path toward citizenship for those in the country illegally, and said she would prioritize the issue during her first 100 days in office. Mrs. Clinton joins a long list of political leaders who have spoken at the groups’ conventions, which often focus on increasing diversity in newsrooms. President Obama, former President Bill Clinton, former president George W. Bush, Bob Dole and former Vice President Al Gore have all addressed past conventions. The groups invited Mr. Trump to speak, but he declined, according to the organizers. Before taking questions, Mrs. Clinton delivered a   address focused mostly on how her plans to improve the economy would especially benefit blacks and Latinos. “Rosa Parks opened up every seat on the bus,” she said. “Now we’ve got to open up every opportunity. ” Hovering over the address was the image of Mrs. Clinton addressing a room full of journalists. Although she occasionally holds informal sessions with the news media on campaign stops, Clinton aides have spent months explaining why she hasn’t held an official news conference, as most candidates, particularly Mr. Trump, do regularly. “We’ll have a press conference when we want to have a press conference,” Joel Benenson, the campaign’s chief strategist and pollster, told ABC News last month. She even had some words of encouragement for the Fourth Estate: “We need you to keep holding leaders and candidates accountable,” Mrs. Clinton told the hundreds of journalists attending the   conference here of the National Association of Black Journalists and the National Association of Hispanic Journalists. Near the end of the event, Mrs. Clinton talked about her   girlfriends, whom she rarely mentions in public. Asked what the most meaningful conversation she has had with one of them, she said she was “blessed to have a crew of great friends. ” These include some of her most senior aides, including Cheryl D. Mills, Maggie Williams and Minyon Moore. “I can’t compress it into one conversation,” Mrs. Clinton said. “They’ve supported me. They’ve chastised me. They’ve raised issues with me. ”