LOS ANGELES  —     anthropomorphic food. Meryl Streep as a clueless opera singer. A furry, folksy Disney dragon. Bank robbers in   West Texas. It was a weekend of unusually   new offerings at North American theaters, and it worked out well for Hollywood  —   for the most part. As expected, “Suicide Squad” (Warner) led the box office pack for a second weekend, taking in an estimated $43. 8 million, for a new domestic total of $222. 9 million, according to comScore. But the film also   dropping 67 percent weekend to weekend, as its Rotten Tomatoes grade from critics caught up to it and the fanboy audience turned toward the   animated “Sausage Party. ” Backed by a crackerjack marketing campaign, “Sausage Party” (Sony) collected about $33. 6 million, beating the prerelease expectations of some box office analysts and proving once again that audiences respond to original concepts. “Sausage Party,” with character voices provided by Seth Rogen and Kristen Wiig, was also relatively cheap: Sony and Annapurna Pictures split the $19 million in production expenses. “Pete’s Dragon” (Disney) was third. Ticket sales totaled $21. 5 million, a bit less than anticipated. This   remake charmed most critics, but its crowd appeal was limited. Disney said on Sunday that 33 percent of the   audience was under the age of 12. “Pete’s Dragon” cost about $65 million to make. Playing in less than half as many theaters, the Meryl Streep vehicle “Florence Foster Jenkins” (Paramount) began its run with $6. 6 million in ticket sales, on par with expectations for a period film aimed at older women. (Paramount said on Sunday that 97 percent of the audience was over the age of 25.) While Ms. Streep has lost some of her box office sizzle in recent years, she continues to be adored by critics, receiving strong enough reviews in this modestly budgeted film to spark early awards buzz. Also of note: “Hell or High Water” (Lionsgate and CBS Films) a $12 million Texas heist thriller that has received euphoric reviews and stars Jeff Bridges, began a slow,   rollout, arriving in 32 theaters and collecting $592, 000, for a hefty   average of $18, 500.