The syringe started off as a conspiracy theory about Hillary Clinton’s health posted on a fringe   website. It traveled to the legitimizing megaphone of   cable news. And it ended, after an agonizing journey through the new realities of the campaign media, with a single phone call that debunked its entire existence. There was no syringe. Along the way, the syringe that wasn’t revealed everything there is to know about the truth, the media and this   presidential campaign. On the latest episode of The   we explore what happened to truth in this campaign and who’s to blame for the new world of   and outright falsehoods. Our guides: Jim Rutenberg, The Times’s media columnist, who figured out what the syringe really was and exposed the hidden connections that fanned the original, inaccurate reporting Charlie Sykes, an influential conservative radio show host who has sounded the alarm about the partisan warfare that has left us with no referees who can separate fact from fiction and Sarah Ellison, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, who has presciently reported on the possibility that Donald J. Trump’s campaign may be evolving into a media empire. Mr. Sykes, who says he stands by much of his critique of the mainstream media, now concedes that years of relentlessly bashing it have left the country without any trusted sources of information. “As a conservative talk show host, one of our themes has always been to bash the mainstream media, to point out the bias,” he said. “But this is the moment you wake up and you go, O. K. have we done such an effective job that when I say, for example, ‘What Donald Trump said here is demonstrably false and here is the   from The New York Times or The Washington Post’  —   we now have an audience that is conditioned to say, ‘Well, you know, that’s the mainstream media, that is the liberal media, I’m not going to take that seriously.’ ” The result, he said, is a country in which there are no final arbiters of truth. “You begin to realize you’ve basically cut down all of these guideposts to be able to say, ‘Look this is what is reliable, this is what is not reliable,’ ” Mr. Sykes said. Or as Mr. Rutenberg put it: in this new world, “Truth is absolutely relative. There’s no platonic form of truth. ” From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.