Kim Severson is filling in for Sam Sifton, who emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here. So we need to talk. I want to break up. It’s not you, it’s me. I just need some space. I also need to turn this back over to Sam Sifton, your regularly scheduled newsletter date. But before we part ways, let’s spend just a little more time together. We’ll start with a recipe that I think you’ll always remember me for: tahini ranch dressing. Actually, it’s a recipe Tejal Rao pried out of Julia Goldberg, a cook at the New York vegetarian   restaurant Superiority Burger. (Ms. Rao is our newest reporter here at Recipe Central. The kid’s got moxie!) You can use it to dress some romaine or punch up roasted potatoes. It would also work on vegetables or in a burrito. And since you’ve already got the jar of tahini out, put it to good use in this Martha Rose Shulman recipe for roasted broccoli with tahini sauce. Or go old school (there’s an Old Testament joke here somewhere) with Yotam Ottolenghi’s hummus from the cookbook “Jerusalem. ” Lastly, I’d stake my work marriage to Julia Moskin on her salted tahini chocolate chip cookie recipe. Melissa Clark has been busy, too. Check out her latest, a grilled corn recipe based on the elote, the Mexican street snack. And I’m a fan of her vegetarian skillet chili, because you probably already have everything you need to make it, and you can get it on the table pretty quickly tonight. In fact, you probably need some other easy ideas for Manic Monday. (Did you know Prince wrote that song?) We’ve got suggestions for that. Of course, a good cook is never daunted. A lasagna on Monday? Why not? I laugh at you, Monday. Here’s a light vegetarian version that will make you wish Monday would start all over again. Double down by making Mystery Cake, adapted from “Joy of Cooking. ” So, anyway, about us. It’s been great. I’ve loved our time together. I wish you a wonderful life. Don’t forget to write. The address is cookingcare@nytimes. com. And if you haven’t blocked or unfriended me yet, stay in touch on Twitter @kimseverson or on Instagram. And if you never want to see me again, at least follow NYT Cooking in all these places: Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. I toast what we had with a glass of salty lemonade and leave you with this. It says it all.