Psst, there is another debate on Tuesday. No, not between Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton. They do not suit back up in their gladiatorial armor until next Sunday. This one is between their running mates, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana and Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia. Voters may be forgiven for barely knowing of it, or allotting it little space on their mental hard drives, because of the incendiary flashes tossed into the race daily from the top of the tickets, especially by Mr. Trump. The meeting of Mr. Pence, a Republican, and Mr. Kaine, a Democrat, two pensive and   nominees, might be the least anticipated   debate in 40 years. “You’re essentially following   a few days later with a nationally televised book club,” said Tucker Martin, a Republican strategist in Richmond, Va. about an hour from the campus of Longwood University, where the   debate will take place. There are several reasons for the lack of excitement, which could rival previous   debates like Al Gore versus Jack Kemp in 1996. That one drew the fewest television viewers, 26. 6 million, of any matchup since the first   debate in 1976. Neither of this year’s   candidates was a national figure at the time he was selected, unlike many past nominees. Neither has set off a media feeding frenzy like previous nominees such as Geraldine A. Ferraro, the first woman on a major party ticket, in 1984 or Sarah Palin, who became a lightning rod for critics in 2008. Mr. Pence and Mr. Kaine are both white men in their late 50s, with solid governing résumés, but little reputation beyond their home states. They were safe choices picked in part because they would not detract from the top of the ticket. “I am boring,” Mr. Kaine said shortly before being selected. Mr. Pence introduced himself at the Republican National Convention “to those of you who don’t know me, which is most of you. ” Mr. Trump represents a merger of presidential politics and reality show. “Trump has so elevated the interest in any kind of political theater that a debate that doesn’t have a   figure by comparison becomes incredibly less entertaining, sadly,” said Dan Senor, a senior adviser to Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin in 2012, when Mr. Ryan was Mitt Romney’s running mate. On social media, voters have compared the looming debate to watching “paint dry” and “90 minutes of Kaine and Pence quizzing each other on   trivia. ” Some strategists have said the debate should draw much more attention because Mr. Pence and Mr. Kaine are the understudies for candidates who, if elected, would be the oldest president ever to take office (Mr. Trump) or the second oldest (Mrs. Clinton). Since the conventions in late July, neither Mr. Pence nor Mr. Kaine has returned to the headlines they received when they were selected. Google Trends shows that interest in the two   candidates has flatlined at close to zero. “They’re relatively unknown because they’re more policy wonks,” said Kyle C. Kopko, a   of “The VP Advantage,” a book published this year on the electoral influence of running mates. The epic clash between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump, whom voters on both sides view in near millenarian terms, has diverted attention from the   candidates. “Trump and Clinton are both polarizing figures,” said Joel K. Goldstein, a scholar of the vice presidency at St. Louis University School of Law. “The feeling that this debate may not be viewed as the return of Elvis isn’t necessarily a reflection on the   candidates or the office. ” Since the first presidential debate last Monday, which drew record TV viewership, Mr. Trump has returned to daily criticism of a former Miss Universe, Alicia Machado, for her appearance, keeping alive an issue many Republicans believe is costing him support among Hispanics and women. Questions about Mr. Trump’s temperament have again upstaged any discussion of policy differences between Republicans and Democrats. It is in that circuslike atmosphere that the   candidates will compete for voters’ attention. “  will most likely produce a very substantive and   debate, so it’s a real shame there isn’t more interest,” Mr. Martin, the Republican strategist, said. “But, hey, once you’ve reduced a presidential campaign to just another reality TV show, you reap what you sow. ” Mr. Pence, who is likely to find himself defending Mr. Trump’s derogatory comments about women, would be assuming the role of previous nominees who had to make up for stumbles by their running mates in an earlier debate. In 2012, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. launched a fierce attack on the Republican candidate, Mr. Ryan, to calm Democrats who were in   mode over President Obama’s poor performance in an earlier debate with Mr. Romney. That was also the job of Vice President George Bush in 1984 after President Reagan had a bad first debate against Walter F. Mondale. Mr. Pence will be called on to have “a calming presence on the panic many people have about the idea of Trump as president,” Mr. Senor said. Neither   nominee, each of whom has governed a large state, should have to spend much time assuring viewers of his executive qualifications, as Senator Dan Quayle of Indiana had to do on the Republican ticket in 1988. Polling before and after   debates has shown that they do not have much effect on the overall race. A Gallup analysis before the 2012   found that the median change in polling after the   debates in 1992, 1996, 2000 and 2008 was one percentage point. The 2008 debate between Ms. Palin and Mr. Biden was the most watched ever, seen by nearly 70 million viewers, more than for any of the presidential debates that year. Still, in the immediate aftermath, the Democratic ticket gained only two percentage points, and the Republicans lost one.