It is an idea universally indulged that escaping to a   spot, preferably surrounded by landscapes of stunning natural beauty, will spark bouts of unnatural creativity. Four years ago, I tested that proposition when my wife and I left London for a tiny cottage in a remote valley in the Black Mountains of South Wales. It felt like another world. The view from the window was of sheep rather than the top deck of red London buses. Our nearest neighbor was a farm a   walk across three fields. We couldn’t hear them watching television or smell what they cooked for supper. I found that, true enough, with no job, no friends and no television, a lot of writing is possible. I never stopped to consider the cost. Social interaction was so rare that after weeks alone in my writing shed, my ability to regulate conversation atrophied: A friendly question in the post office would elicit a   response. I began to fear the prospect of friends visiting as a threat to my   “space. ” Then, after a year or more, just as the arrival of our first child transformed our isolation from a creative asset into a psychological liability, Rachel, our midwife, came with news. “Oh, there’s another author round here whose baby I just delivered. ” Loneliness and prideful smugness did battle: An unspoken obligation loomed. The author in question turned out to be Owen Sheers. In due course, we admitted to each other the drawbacks of our rural situation. Yes, with nothing but my wife and sheep for company, I had written a second book much faster than the first. But I did like talking about books as well as writing them. In the now popular saying, cities are where ideas go to have sex. So much of contemporary cultural production and consumption takes place in urban settings, and, globally, the pace of urbanization is accelerating. Owen and I shared a latent fear: What were we missing out on? Owen knew several other writers in the area, the nonfiction writer Oliver Balch and the novelist Tom Bullough. I suggested a writers’ book club to discuss a different book every month from the perspective of craft, technique, style. “Yes, a few of us tried that before,” said Tom, wearily. “But someone said something unforgivable about Gogol, and that was the end of it. ” Before the first meeting, we went to a reading and met two more. They, in turn, spread the word further and the net wider. In these hills, writers, it seemed, were more common than vermin. And their enthusiasm for the book club was palpable. To taciturn writers for whom small talk is a kind of torture, it was, I think, a convenient alibi for company. British sociability can often be a perilous obstacle course of implicit obligation where the goal of social occasions is to emerge unscathed without being caught in a web of suffocating reciprocity. We were explicitly gathered not to talk about ourselves, but about books. Now each month we assemble like a clandestine congregation of nonconformists in the basement of a charming local pub: the Bridge End Inn, Talgarth. After several months, we quickly overwhelmed our allotted table and colonized the whole room. Our membership is now pushing 18. Ideas, it seems, are desperate for their monthly hookup. So what of the product? Do the magic ingredients of peace, quiet and stimulating company make any difference to creative output? It’s hard to say. The main factor, we’d all agree, is the cost of time. Money vaporizes in London before you’ve even put your hand in your pocket. But will we write different books outside the city? Maybe not immediately, but the constellation of serious writers in a rural setting is an interesting phenomenon that, I think, reflects wider changes in the global economy and climate. Artists are getting priced out of global cities, and climate change has politicized the rural in new ways. The first book we read was “10:04,” by Ben Lerner. Although the group on the whole reacted badly to the narrow New York focus of the book, the example of the author’s supreme   of place (it is taken as   that Brooklyn is where anyone would want to live) has struck a chord in many discussions since. Away from the city, climate change as a totalizing political and cultural concern is hard to avoid. “How can anyone, now, justify writing a book that is not, in some way, about our relationship to this planet,” our dear late member Rebecca Loncraine said. It would be difficult, here, to write one of those   nature books, with which Britain is currently awash, idealizing the natural world as a zone of innocence untouched by human influence. Lately, we have spent time talking, as all writers do, about the inadequacy of language of the need for a new vocabulary to describe things that humans have denatured, violated. The sea is no longer the same sea that the word initially signified. The air is no longer the air it once was, and so on. Pretentious perhaps, but urgent too. Strangely, I have met more writers in these hills than I ever knew in all the global cities in which I have lived: New York, Chicago, Nairobi, London. Not only has moving away from the city increased my productivity, but I am blessed with that rare thing: a fresh view. My citybound friends still refer to where I live as “the middle of nowhere,” but to me, it increasingly feels at the heart of things.