Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.) California has the nation’s strictest gun laws. There is a waiting period, a written test and a number of restrictions on guns and gear. Some voters pondering Proposition 63 have asked: Haven’t we done enough? Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor, says no. He’s developed the initiative that would push the state’s gun limits even further. Under Proposition 63, ammunition purchasers would be treated similar to gun purchasers. Before a Californian could buy even a single bullet of any kind, he or she would need to pay a fee of up to $50 and wait up to 30 days to obtain a   permit. “The game changer in the country is going to be ammunition background checks,” Mr. Newsom, who is running for governor in 2018, said in a phone interview. Proposition 63 has drawn vehement opposition from civil liberties and policing groups who argue that it would make Californians less safe and impede law enforcement. What’s more, they note, the state already created a law this year that added background checks for bullet buyers at the point of sale. (Mr. Newsom said that bill did not go far enough.) Critically, opponents say, the wait time could put people in danger. In one of the opposition group’s campaign ads, a lone woman is depicted pulling a gun against an attacker in a dim parking lot, only to pull the trigger and hear the “click” of an unloaded weapon. “All Proposition 63 seeks to do is pile on 34 more pages of more complex legalese on an already byzantine system of gun laws,” said Sean Brady, counsel for the Coalition for Civil Liberties. Proposition 63 also adds new felony charges for stealing firearms, broadens a ban on large capacity magazines and requires all felons to surrender their guns, among other measures. Since 2000, the rate of gun violence in California has fallen by about 20 percent, according to Garen J. Wintemute, an epidemiologist who studies firearm violence at U. C. Davis. Whether that can be credited to tough gun measures is a subject of disagreement. But firearm dealers say at least one outcome of the debate is certain: more sales. Californians have been buying more guns than ever  —   last year, more than 890, 000. Dig into analyses of all 17 statewide measures by the Legislative Analyst’s Office, CALmatters and Ballotpedia. • With dirty tricks and veiled charges of religious intolerance, a campaign in Irvine reflects the turbulent currents of American politics. [The New York Times] • An investigation into a $72 million apartment complex in Los Angeles raised questions about the influence of cash on the political process. [Los Angeles Times] • With polls showing the state poised to legalize recreational marijuana, some cities are scrambling to pass temporary bans. [The Mercury News] • Mike Cernovich is a social media mastermind of the  . He operates out of Southern California. [The New Yorker] • By one intriguing measure, the West, not the South, has the highest poverty rate in the country. [The New York Times Editorial Board] • San Diego’s once thriving card room industry is struggling mightily, done in by a law passed in the 1980s. [San Diego  ] • San Francisco’s most expensive home sold in October for nearly $22 million. Now we know the buyer: a    tech billionaire. [SFGate. com] • Norman Brokaw, who rose from mail clerk to top mogul at the William Morris talent agency, died in Beverly Hills. He was 89. [The New York Times] • The Irvine Meadows amphitheater closed its doors after hosting music’s biggest names for 35 years. [Orange County Register] • Joe Ide’s debut novel, “IQ,” set in Long Beach, kicks off what is likely to be a madly lovable new detective series. [The New York Times] • Scientists discovered a species of millipede with 414 legs and four penises in a California cave. [The New York Times] Alexander von Humboldt  —   whose California namesakes include a county, a university and multiple parks  —   was the foremost scientist of his time. Before Charles Darwin, the Prussian geographer was the first to establish an understanding of ecosystems in the early 1800s. “The Invention of Nature” is the first biography of Humboldt in English in many years and its author, Andrea Wulf, was in California over the past few weeks to talk about it. We caught up with her over email. What do you think Californians might be most surprised to learn about Humboldt? What do you most admire about him? You make the case that he is the forgotten father of environmentalism. Why do you think he’s not better known? Do Humboldt’s insights continue to hold relevance today? How? California Today goes live at 6 a. m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes. com. The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a   Californian  —   born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U. C. Berkeley.