It wasn’t until she was 3 years old that Shatiana Vanterpool received a diagnosis. Unable to walk or talk, she was taken by her mother, Shayntte Johnson, to three different doctors, and finally it was discovered that she had cerebral palsy, which affected her muscle tone and motor skills. She didn’t learn to walk until she was about 5. And doctors said she would never be able to speak. Now, at 21, Ms. Vanterpool rides the subway on her own. Her mother said this makes her a little nervous sometimes, but “you have to let her grow and see what the other side is like. ” After years of hard work, including physical, occupational and speech therapy, Ms. Vanterpool is enrolled in a rehabilitation program for adults with intellectual disabilities that helps prepare them for the work world. But for Ms. Johnson, being a single parent to Ms. Vanterpool and her    sister has been a struggle. Last February, they moved into a family shelter and stayed until Ms. Johnson could find affordable housing, which she finally did in October. Brooklyn Community Services, one of the eight agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, used $500 from the fund to provide a new bed and dresser for Ms. Vanterpool’s room. Ms. Johnson became concerned for her family’s safety after a recent shooting by the police in the Brooklyn public housing complex where they now live. She has considered requesting a transfer to other housing. In the meantime, Ms. Vanterpool will continue with her therapy and says she is determined to find a job and live independently. A child with multiple disabilities “may look a little different, but they are no different,” her mother said. “People need to have patience. ” All donations made to the Neediest Cases Fund go to one of eight charities: Brooklyn Community Services Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens The Children’s Aid Society Community Service Society of New York Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies   of New York and the International Rescue Committee. To help, please make checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and send them to P. O. Box 5193, New York, N. Y. 10087. Donations may be made with a credit card at    or online at nytimes. .