PESHAWAR, Pakistan  —   A Pakistan International Airlines plane with 48 people on board, including a famous former pop singer, crashed near Abbottabad in northern Pakistan on Wednesday, government officials and the airline said. The flight, PK 661, was traveling to Islamabad, the capital, from Chitral, a northern tourist destination near the   border, when it crashed, said Saeed Wazir, the deputy inspector general of police in Abbottabad district. At least 40 bodies were taken from the crash site on Wednesday night and brought to a hospital in Abbottabad. Recovery efforts continued, aided by hundreds of soldiers, but officials held out little hope that anyone would be found alive. “What locals from the crash scene are telling us, the passengers are all burned,” Mr. Wazir said. “Smoke and fire are billowing from the debris. No one can go near it. People are helpless. ” Pakistan International Airlines, the national carrier, released a statement saying that 42 passengers, five crew members and one ground engineer were on the aircraft, an   twin turboprop plane. The statement said the plane went down near the city of Havelian, in Abbottabad district. In a telephone interview, the director general of the Civil Aviation Authority, Asim Suleiman, said that in the minutes before the crash, the plane’s pilot radioed to air traffic controllers that the left engine had flamed out. “Two minutes later, he lost contact,” Mr. Suleiman said. Rescue workers and people from nearby villages had to walk for an hour to reach the crash site. Local television news networks broadcast images of the smoldering debris of the aircraft, sprawled over a large hilly area, as dozens of people ran toward the wreckage. The passengers included Junaid Jamshed, a popular recording artist who later turned to Islamic proselytizing. Mr. Jamshed was a heartthrob in his youth, performing lead vocals in the band Vital Signs, known for its brooding, romantic, catchy ballads. The band’s first pop music album, released in 1989, took the country by storm: The song “Dil Dil Pakistan” has become a sort of unofficial national anthem. After the band broke up in the   Mr. Jamshed turned to Islamic preaching and became a televangelist. Although he had stopped singing, he began reciting na’at, a type of poetry that praises the Prophet Muhammad, and started a successful retail clothing business. One of Mr. Jamshed’s two wives was with him on the flight, according to Pakistani news reports. Mr. Jamshed’s family members said he had gone to Chitral a week ago on a proseletyzing mission and had extended his stay by two days. A senior government official in Peshawar said three foreigners  —   one Australian, one Chinese and one Korean  —   were among the passengers. The crash is again focusing attention on Pakistan’s troubled air travel industry. For years, Pakistan International Airlines has been buffeted by controversies over mismanagement, corruption and safety. The two most recent major air crashes, however, involved private or local airlines. In 2012, a flight by Bhoja Air, a private carrier, crashed outside Islamabad, killing 127 people.