OAKLAND, Calif.  —   New York Times reporters are investigating the devastating fire that killed 36 people this month at a warehouse called the Ghost Ship in Oakland, Calif. We’re also doing something new: providing regular updates on our findings. Do you have information, advice or feedback? Send email to oaklandfire@nytimes. com.  The first update can be found here. Among the targets of our reporting is finding out about the owner of the sprawling warehouse that burst into flames on Dec. 2. Property records show that her name is Chor Nar Siu Ng and that she bought the building in 1988. Did Ms. Ng know anything about the dangers at the Ghost Ship? And if so, what did she do to fix them? For the past week, I’ve been trying to learn more about Ms. Ng, combing through records at the Alameda County  ’s office, interviewing people all over Oakland’s Chinatown  —   where she owns several properties  —   and trying to track down her children, who helped her run her businesses. So far, no one has found her. (The Los Angeles Times did speak with her daughter, Eva Ng, who said the family hadn’t known that anyone lived at the Ghost Ship.) Through documents and interviews, here’s what we’ve learned about Chor Nar Siu Ng: • First, Ms. Ng owns several properties in the Bay Area  —   roughly 10  —   most of which are in Oakland. She owns the warehouse that burned, at 1315 31st Avenue, as well as an adjacent lot to the south and an adjacent building to the north. That building houses a Boost Mobile store, a boutique called Moda and a   religious goods shop called Botanica 3 MMM. • Second, the city has spent years fining Ms. Ng for what it calls “nuisance or substandard or hazardous or injurious” conditions at the lot south of the warehouse and at the building to the north. While it’s difficult to determine exactly how much Ms. Ng has paid because of these conditions, tax records offer a clue: Between 2005 and 2014, Ms. Ng paid $26, 570. 20 in “code enforcement” fees to the city of Oakland for the lot next to the Ghost Ship. I’ve reached out to the city to ask about the specifics of what led to these fines. Messages were also left with two of Ms. Ng’s children, as well as with a lawyer named Gerard Lam, who represented Ms. Ng in a previous dispute with a tenant. There’s been no response yet. • Third, it’s clear that Ms. Ng had at least some presence in the warehouse area. Several people who used to live at the Ghost Ship have said Ms. Ng or her daughter would come by the warehouse, first alerting Derick Ion Almena, the man who rented the place from them. What’s not clear is whether the Ngs entered the building and saw what was inside: a   staircase, a blocked exit upstairs, webs of extension cords, propane tanks used to heat water and piles of flammable debris. Now that it’s evident that Ms. Ng has a string of properties around the city, it will be important to try to find her tenants. What did they think of how she ran her buildings? Did they feel safe? For about 20 years, Griselda Ceja and her family rented a portion of the building next to the burned warehouse. From there, Ms. Ceja ran a beauty salon she called Griselda’s. (The salon is still listed on Google Maps.) “She never took care of the building,” Ms. Ceja said. “We were scared. We were all scared. ” Ms. Ceja, 43, described troubling conditions: a circuit box and light fixtures that sparked as she dried customers’ hair. A blocked emergency exit. An aged electric system that failed constantly. There were also rats in the walls and holes in the floors. She wanted to go elsewhere but couldn’t afford to, she said. Ms. Ceja said she complained frequently to Ms. Ng and her relatives, communicating through letters, phone calls and text messages. After about a year, Ms. Ceja said, the Ngs added a second circuit box, an effort to stop the sparking. Ms. Ceja said she called the city once, about a decade ago, to complain about the rats. She said an Oakland official came by, but she didn’t press him to take action. “He said the building would close if he did something about it,” she said, “and everyone would go out of business. ” A request has been sent to the city for documents that would confirm this. Ms. Ceja suggested talking to Leo Barrera, who had worked with her at the salon, to verify her account. “We told them many times: ‘Please, if you could fix this, we need light, or water, or an emergency exit,’” Ms. Barrera, 36, said at her new beauty shop. “The most basic. Nothing more. We weren’t asking for luxuries,” she said. “In the case that the building caught on fire,” she added, “how would we have exited?” Did everyone have such problems? On Friday, I went to Chinatown, where at least three properties are in Ms. Ng’s name. Michelle Leung, a student at the University of California, Berkeley, who speaks Cantonese, came along to interpret. At a grocery, a Vietnamese restaurant and a building that houses the California Chinese Orchestra, no one knew her. But at Sum Yee Pastry, the owner  —   a man who would not give his name  —   said his family had rented from Ms. Ng for a decade. No major problems, he said, just a few leaks, which he fixed himself. Later, back at the scene of the fire, a woman named Rose Martinez, 31, was standing outside Botanica 3 MMM near tears. Her family started the business about 20 years ago, she said. The fire had caused considerable water and smoke damage, and the business is now closed. The Ngs had been good to them, she said, even letting the family skip rent one month after her father died. But the faulty electricity and the rats had been a real problem, Ms. Martinez said. Of the fire, she said, “losswise, I don’t know how to put it into words. ” WHAT’S NEXT: I’d like to speak with the Ngs, with any of their business associates, and with people who have lived and worked at their properties, as well as with more residents of the Ghost Ship. How often did they see Ms. Ng or her family members at the warehouse? And it’s important to hear from city officials about their interactions with the landlord. Lastly, all of this is a part of a larger question: Who will ultimately be held legally responsible for the fire? Could lawyers who’ve worked on other cases involving major fires provide any advice? P. S.: Readers, I want to know when the warehouse at 1315 31st Avenue was built and what it had been in past years. A canning factory? A dairy? The Oakland History Room, the Oakland Heritage Survey and the University of California’s Earth Sciences and Map Library have all provided some clues, but nothing definitive so far. Suggestions?  —   JULIE TURKEWITZ When we took on this project last week, we hoped for feedback from readers. What we got was well beyond our expectations: a torrent of tips, expertise, links to documents and anguished readers describing their experiences with the housing crisis in the Bay Area. Architects, fire marshals, lawyers, artists and concerned residents were among the hundreds of readers who wrote us, creating a trove of contacts for the reporters working on the project. Janet Van Ham, a photographer, wrote to describe precarious spaces that she has rented in Oakland. When I called Ms. Van Ham to follow up, she said she had an epiphany over the summer at her   loft in an old warehouse. “I remember thinking, ‘If there was a fire in here, how would I get out? ’” she said. “There was no safety plan, no enforcement. ” She moved out in August. Serena Elston, a carpenter and wood sculptor who lives in a loft in Fruitvale, the neighborhood where the Ghost Ship is, wrote about the plight of artists and the powerful but intangible sense of community in Oakland among them. I drove to Ms. Elston’s   converted warehouse with Jim Wilson, our San Francisco bureau photographer. Ms. Elston’s studio, filled with power saws and timber, has a sprinkler system. But we spoke about the many other people in Oakland who live more precariously. “It’s a don’t ask, don’t tell situation,” Ms. Elston said. “Let’s say you know your electrical system is super messed up. Are you going to call your landlord in? Is he going to fix it or kick you out?” We are grateful to all those who wrote, and we welcome more information as we continue the project.  —   THOMAS FULLER