OAKLAND, Calif.  —   The charred, roofless shell of the Ghost Ship, the warehouse where 36 people perished on a chilly Friday evening in early December, is clearly visible from the driveway of Oakland firehouse No. 13. Though the warehouse sits less than 200 yards away, the firehouse’s proximity did nothing to help prevent America’s deadliest structural fire in more than a decade. For years before the Dec. 2 fire, the Ghost Ship may just as well have been invisible to the Oakland Fire Department. Raucous parties. Frequent complaints by neighbors. Calls summoning firefighters to put out fires at nearby properties. None of these triggered an inspection of the warehouse by the crew at the firehouse a short block away. A criminal investigation led by the Alameda County district attorney is now underway into the liability of the owner of the property, the master tenant who essentially ran the warehouse, and others. But dozens of interviews and a review of documents show that the fire was a disaster waiting to happen, a deadly mix of a flawed safety inspection system and a shortage of affordable housing that led tenants to live in a building that was never intended to be a residence. Once the fire erupted, people were trapped in a cluttered warehouse with just two exits. The two city agencies responsible for examining the safety of Oakland’s structures, the Building Department and the Fire Department, hadn’t inspected the Ghost Ship in 30 years. The database that fire officials use to track properties in need of inspections is outdated, resulting in a process that is haphazard at best. Beyond a list of buildings mandated by the state, the city of Oakland leaves it up to the Fire Department to determine which commercial buildings should be inspected and how often. But the city’s website, which laid out details of the program, was altered after the fire, deleting a passage that called for mandatory annual inspections of all commercial buildings. The entry was also changed to say that when inspections occur, they should take place “approximately” every two years. Until last spring, the department had had no fire marshal in about three years. The department remains significantly understaffed, with 62 vacancies, despite adequate funding. Though people were living in the warehouse in clear view of neighbors and the authorities, they were living there illegally the structure was registered with the county as a warehouse, not a residence. Oakland’s housing crisis has spurred people across the city to live in unsafe places. Also illegal were the concert and party, which were never registered with the city. All but one of the people who died in the fire was attending the party on the second floor, a part of the building that was particularly difficult to escape from. Oakland’s fire chief, Teresa Deloach Reed, defended her department in an interview at headquarters this week. “We’ve been doing what we always did, and up to this point it worked,” she said. “But now we’ve discovered that maybe what we’ve been doing is not working. ” Chief Deloach Reed, however, rejected blame for the fire. When pressed, she offered, “Possibly we fell short in regards to this incident. ” She also acknowledged that in hindsight, the building should have come under more scrutiny. Chief Deloach Reed said she was aware that the city’s website had been altered to remove mention of mandatory annual inspections and described it as a belated update reflecting a policy change that occurred around two years ago. “The website was not accurate,” she said. “It had to be changed in order to reflect really what was going on. ” The database that alerts the department about what buildings to inspect was initially compiled around 15 years ago by firefighters who drove around and drew up lists of businesses, the chief said. But in a measure of confusion over the issue, employees and owners of businesses near the Ghost Ship, including a grocery store, a dry cleaner and a fire extinguisher vendor, all said firefighters inspected their facilities annually. They questioned why the Ghost Ship was not inspected, too. Alex Aguilar, the manager at Kick City, a nearby shoe store, said that in the three years he has worked at the business, firefighters had come by for an inspection every year. Chief Deloach Reed said the department was not equipped to inspect all commercial facilities every year. “We don’t have enough resources,” she said. But Rebecca Kaplan, a member of the Oakland City Council, said, “There are multiple positions that are in the budget that have been funded but that are vacant. ” Appearing tense but   the chief said that the 62 positions that had been budgeted but yet not filled as of November remained vacant because the hiring process can take months. The Fire Department is currently drafting its report on the fire, with input from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said Alexandria Corneiro, a spokeswoman for the agency’s San Francisco field division. Once completed, the report will be given to the district attorney’s office. A fixture of the neighborhood of Fruitvale, the building that housed the Ghost Ship was first constructed in 1930, according to county records. It sat amid factories, mills and beer gardens established by the neighborhood’s many immigrants. Al Garcia, a longtime resident, recalled that it was part of a milk bottling plant owned by Dairy Rich in the 1950s and 1960s, then served as a warehouse for copper and   pipes. Chor Nar Siu Ng bought the building in 1988, also acquiring a lot to its south and a building to its north. In the years that followed, the city began fining her for what it called “nuisance or substandard or hazardous or injurious” conditions at the lot and the   building. From 2005 to 2014, Ms. Ng paid at least $26, 570. 20 in “code enforcement” fees to the city for the empty lot. Five complaints were lodged with the Building Department between 2014 and 2016 about unsafe conditions on both properties. But the department, headed by Darin Ranelletti and charged with following up on public complaints, said that while inspectors had visited the site none had actually entered the building in 30 years. He said the department needs an owner’s permission to enter a building. Mr. Ranelletti said that an inspector visited the warehouse lot on Nov. 17 and 18 in response to two complaints, but was “unable to get visual access” to the property. The inspector had scheduled another visit for next month, on Jan. 16. Property records indicate that Ms. Ng owns roughly 10 properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, most of them in Oakland. In an interview, one woman who rented from her for about 20 years, Griselda Ceja, said she complained repeatedly about a space overrun by rats and a faulty electrical system that caused the circuit box to spark regularly. Ms. Ng has not responded to requests for comment. Ms. Ng began renting the warehouse to an artist named Derick Ion Almena in 2013. As the master tenant, he served as a kind of de facto landlord, illegally subleasing the space for events like the party on Dec. 2. A lawyer, Tony Serra, announced in a statement on Monday that he would be representing Mr. Almena, who did not respond to interview requests. Mr. Almena packed the building with antiques and oddities, moved his wife and three children into an upstairs compound, and began renting downstairs space for roughly $600 a head  —   a bargain in a city where the median rent for a   has risen to almost $2, 500 a month. The Ghost Ship was one of dozens of warehouses across the city. Since the fire, these have come under heavy scrutiny. Tenants report emergency inspections from landlords and city inspectors. Still, with so many people living in these spaces, Oakland is trying to strike a difficult balance: keeping residents safe without making them homeless. Rents have jumped 70 percent in five years, faster than in any big city in the nation. The Ghost Ship housed musicians, jewelry makers and others. It also grew to include complex vines of electrical cords, and power failures became a frequent problem. Oakland’s scattershot fire inspection system stands in contrast with that of neighboring Berkeley, which inspects “almost everything except   residences,” said Steve Riggs, deputy fire marshal in Berkeley. Warehouses are inspected regardless of whether they are empty, he said. On the night of the Oakland fire, Griffin Madden arrived at the Ghost Ship with his best friend from college, David Cline. Mr. Madden had graduated a year before from the University of California, Berkeley, where he studied philosophy and Slavic literature and languages. He was also an    D. J. known for throwing   parties with his sister Sky. The Ghost Ship party was held without any permit from the city. It was promoted on Facebook as an event featuring artists from a Los Angeles music label called 100% Silk. And the gathering’s secret location was announced at the last minute. After dark, Mr. Madden and Mr. Cline climbed the rickety staircase that led to the Ghost Ship’s second floor. The dance area was soon filled with familiar faces in Oakland’s underground art scene. The music was  . By 11:15 the party was just getting going. The room was cluttered and dark. It smelled of marijuana and cigarettes. The first indication of the fire was a new smell, like a firecracker. A group illuminated the floor with iPhones to look for the source, and saw wisps of smoke coming up through the cracks. About a   people made their way to the stairs, and told others to as well. But for most it would be too late. In the space of a few minutes, the faint firecracker smell had become a black cloud. In her studio downstairs, Carmen Brito woke up from a nap choking on smoke. She believes she was the first to notice the fire, which came from the back of the lower part of the building  —   and by then, she said, flames had already engulfed an entire wall. Ms. Brito ran from the building and dialed 911 at 11:23. Another resident of the warehouse, Nikki Kelber, ran toward Engine No. 13, the fire station a short block away. “I was screaming at the top of my lungs: ‘Fire! Fire! Fire! ’” Ms. Kelber said. Before she arrived at the firehouse, she saw the station’s door rolling open. The Fire Department says the first truck arrived within three minutes of receiving the first 911 call. Upstairs in the dance area, a resident named Aaron Marin saw flames licking up from behind the D. J. booth. Alarmed, he turned to the point of entry  —   the wooden staircase  —   which was blocked by confused partygoers. Mr. Marin said he yelled for people to head to a kitchen window. “I’m saying: ‘Kitchen! Kitchen! Kitchen window!’ The whole place goes black,” Mr. Marin said. “ I’m still screaming: ‘Kitchen! Kitchen! Kitchen window!’ as loud as I can. No one can hear. You can’t even hear, that’s how loud the piercing screams were. ” Then, he said, the cries went silent. Mr. Marin, gasping, reached the window, he said, hoisted himself out and dropped  —   landing on dirt two stories below. Darin White, the deputy chief of the Oakland Fire Department who helped coordinate efforts to put out the fire, said smoke would have overpowered the victims after just a few gulps. “It doesn’t take very long once you’ve inhaled some superheated gas to be overcome,” he said. It was not until 4:36 a. m. about five hours after the fire was detected, that Deputy Chief White declared the fire under control. It would be a week before Mike Madden learned that his son, Griffin, was dead. He called the coroner’s office, which told him that Griffin’s remains had been found. Mr. Madden lays some of the responsibility for the disaster on Mr. Almena and Ms. Ng. But ultimately, he said, he thinks the city should have done more to protect his son and others. “I believe if people had been doing their jobs, this would have never happened,” he said. “It’s not an accident or a mistake. People weren’t doing their jobs. ” City officials have expressed their sorrow at the loss of life, but Mr. Madden said he had yet to hear from them. But what he really wants to know, he said, is this: “What’s being done to stop the next one?”