Good morning. Here’s what you need to know to start your day in Europe: • President Trump nominated a conservative judge from Denver, Neil M. Gorsuch, to the U. S. Supreme Court, presaging yet another political battle in Washington. The    nominee’s legal philosophy echoes that of Justice Antonin Scalia, whose seat he will fill if confirmed. In Congress, Democrats sought to delay confirmation for Mr. Trump’s cabinet picks after he fired the acting attorney general for defying his contentious immigration order. About 1, 000 American diplomats around the world have signed a   dissent cable objecting to the order, and legal challenges are mounting. We met seven Iranians stuck in Amsterdam who are among thousands of people affected by the measure. While the immigration order has prompted protests and raised anxiety in corporate America and among U. S. allies, a broad swath of the U. S. electorate appears to welcome it. _____ • Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, called President Trump a potential threat to the European Union, saying his administration seemed to “put into question the last 70 years of American foreign policy. ” Other foreign leaders also wonder whether they can depend on the U. S. to honor defense treaties and trade pacts, given the new president’s litany of impulsive statements and false claims. And Mr. Trump’s top trade adviser waded into E. U. politics by accusing Germany of exploiting other European countries, and the U. S. by keeping the euro artificially low. _____ • The war in eastern Ukraine has intensified, with the government in Kiev and   separatists blaming each other for the surge in violence. Kiev said it was preparing the evacuation of thousands of civilians from the   city of Avdiivka after days of shelling there. _____ • Romania’s government decriminalized official misconduct in some cases, dealing a blow to a yearslong anticorruption campaign. Thousands of people took to the streets in protest, and President Klaus Iohannis, who serves in a largely ceremonial role, called it “a day of mourning for the rule of law. ” _____ • In France, François Fillon’s presidential campaign suffered another blow with new accusations that the conservative’s relatives received government funds for   jobs. The police searched offices in the lower house of Parliament as part of their investigation. And Marine Le Pen, the   presidential candidate, refused to repay 298, 000 euros that the European Parliament, of which she is a member, said she misused. _____ • Take a look at the roaring wheels of China’s   industry. Our latest 360 video comes from the streets of Beijing, where couriers play a crucial role in one of the world’s largest delivery markets. • The eurozone’s economic growth last year exceeded that of the United States for the first time since the 2008 financial crisis, new estimates show. • The E. U. reached a preliminary deal that paves the way for abolishing roaming fees by June. • Uber will partner with Daimler,  the first time a major automaker will provide its own   vehicles specifically for the company’s network. • Apple returned to growth, reporting    revenue largely thanks to the latest iPhones. • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Canada, the deadly shooting in Quebec City has left some wondering whether law enforcement officials played down the threat of   nationalist groups. [The New York Times] • Documents discovered in Iraq offer a chilling picture of the Islamic State’s armed drone program, cobbled out of readily accessible technology. [The New York Times] • Israel announced plans to build 3, 000 new homes in West Bank settlements, even as it was preparing to enforce the   removal of a settlement outpost. [The New York Times] • Lech Walesa, the leader of Poland’s Solidarity movement, said a handwriting analysis that determined he was a paid Communist informant in the 1970s was politically motivated. [The New York Times] • The Czech Foreign Ministry said its email servers had been hacked by a “statelike actor,” in a manner similar to the breach of the Democratic National Committee’s servers. [The New York Times] • One of Europe’s most successful currency counterfeiters is standing trial in Spain. Up to two million of his fake euro notes could still be in circulation. [El País] • Recipe of the day: If you’ve got an hour tonight, try this simple take on roast chicken. • Who knew   could be so . .. complicated? • After a painful breakup, a young woman finds healing in honesty, with both her   and herself. • New York’s    Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show has added new breeds to its annual event (and  —   brace yourself  —   cats). • From Bertolt Brecht, who fled Nazi Germany, to Viet Thanh Nguyen, who escaped Vietnam, we look at major contributions to American literature by refugees. • Peter Capaldi, the 12th and current “Doctor Who,” is leaving the BBC show. The next season, which starts in April, will be his last. • And home cooks are raving about the Instant Pot, which combines an electric pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker and yogurt maker. One of our food writers is a convert. Avalanches have made news in recent weeks. One in central Italy buried a hotel and killed 29 people. Another in California seriously injured a group of hikers. High tech is trying to help snow adventurers survive avalanches with tools to add to the basic shovel and probe. The big danger is being buried and running out of air. So there are backpacks with airbags that cause the churning snow to drive the wearer toward the surface. For someone trapped beneath the snow, a product called an AvaLung can be a lifesaver. It’s a breathing tube that snakes through a backpack, so that inhales are far from the ice block formed by the melting power of exhales. But one of the most recommended tools, the avalanche transceiver, isn’t all that new. In the 1960s, the scientist Edward LaChapelle developed an early version, which John Lawton, another researcher, later improved. That led to the Skadi, an audio transmitter inside a plastic box that was nicknamed “the hot dog” and fit inside a jacket pocket. The Times in 1969 heralded its arrival, noting that the Skadi could eventually replace a much different tool: the avalanche dog. Sean Alfano contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Read the latest edition of the U. S. briefing here and the latest for Asia and Australia here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes. com.