Michael G. Hubbard, the speaker of the Alabama House of Representatives, whose   approach to politics propelled the Republican Party to dominance in his state, was convicted Friday on 12 felony ethics charges, leaving him stripped of power and facing the possibility of decades in prison. The verdict, at the end of Mr. Hubbard’s trial in the Lee County Circuit Court, deepened the political crisis in Alabama, where some of the most influential state officials are facing inquiries and threats of ouster. In recent weeks, the troubles of Mr. Hubbard, who had wielded a level of influence that easily rivaled Gov. Robert Bentley’s power, played out in public as prosecutors portrayed him as financially desperate, privately frustrated and criminally culpable for misconduct under the very ethics law he had helped to strengthen. Although jurors acquitted Mr. Hubbard on 11 counts, his conviction on the remaining dozen charges prompted his removal as the leader of the House. Mr. Hubbard, who was convicted of improperly soliciting benefits from lobbyists and voting in favor of a measure that helped a company for which he consulted, faces up to 20 years in prison on each count. “We hope that this verdict tonight will restore some of the confidence of the people in the state of Alabama,” said W. Van Davis, who oversaw the public corruption inquiry that led to Mr. Hubbard’s indictment in October 2014. Mr. Hubbard, 54, had denounced the indictment from almost the moment it was released, and he and his lawyers argued that he had done nothing illegal, particularly because some of the lobbyists with whom he communicated were personal friends. The charges, they said, amounted to a political assault on a   elected official who often seemed to have as many enemies in the capital as he did friends. Mr. Hubbard intends to appeal, but he is expected to be sentenced next month. His conviction and automatic ouster immediately increased the political turmoil that had shadowed Alabama for months, and made it something of a punch line. The chief justice of the State Supreme Court, Roy S. Moore, could be removed from office this year because of his efforts to resist   marriage, and Mr. Bentley is a subject of impeachment proceedings over an improper relationship with an aide, as well as federal and state inquiries. “It’s a sad day in the state because people have a distrust in government when you look around all three branches,” State Senator Cam Ward, a Republican, said in an interview after the verdict was announced. “This kind of affirms what people have been thinking. ” Mr. Bentley declined to comment through a spokeswoman, but the state’s attorney general, Luther Strange, also a Republican, welcomed the verdict. “This is a good day for the rule of law in our state,” said Mr. Strange, who added that the decision “should send a clear message that in Alabama, we hold public officials accountable for their actions. ” After the verdict, The Associated Press reported, Mr. Hubbard spoke with his team of lawyers, including a former lieutenant governor, before a deputy escorted him from the courtroom. Jurors began their deliberations Friday afternoon and worked into the night, punctuating a trial in Opelika that was notable as both a public spectacle and a clinic about the practice of power in a Southern state with a long history of corruption prosecutions. Witnesses described regular meetings between Mr. Hubbard and lobbyists, and they spoke of how he had sent emails essentially pleading for consulting work. Mr. Hubbard’s emails were flashed onto a screen and dissected while he sat between his lawyers. Mr. Bentley testified, as did former Gov. Bob Riley, whose appearance became so tense that a prosecutor asked that he be deemed a hostile witness. (Judge Jacob A. Walker III, who will sentence Mr. Hubbard, declined to make such a declaration.) Business leaders also appeared as witnesses  —   and were asked to discuss why they had each invested $150, 000 in Mr. Hubbard’s struggling printing company  —   and so did a former state senator, who testified under an immunity agreement. Prosecutors said Mr. Hubbard had abused the power of his office. “He just didn’t want to be held accountable to the law,” a prosecutor, Matt Hart, said last month in his opening statement. Defense lawyers, who called Mr. Hubbard as their only witness, argued that he had taken steps to ensure that he complied with ethics standards and that his efforts to find work were permissible because he had contacted longtime friends. “He tried to follow every part of the ethics law,” a defense lawyer, Bill Baxley, said in the first hours of the trial. Mr. Hubbard’s prosecution was a crucial test for the ethics law, which Republicans had championed after they, under Mr. Hubbard’s leadership, took control of the Legislature in 2010. “This legislation that was passed in 2010 was needed, and prosecutors used it to convict based on violations of the law,” said Paul DeMarco, a former Republican lawmaker. “This may be a black eye on the state of Alabama, but I think all eyes will be on the Alabama Legislature now. ” Addressing reporters outside the courthouse on Friday, Mr. Davis would not discuss other public corruption investigations. “This is probably the first time in recent history that someone at this level in state government has been prosecuted,” he said in an apparent reference to cases brought by Alabama officials. “For that reason, I think it makes a statement. ”