CAIRO  —   The cockpit voice recorder from the EgyptAir flight that crashed in the Mediterranean last month has been recovered, according to a statement Thursday by Egyptian investigators. The recovery of the   black box came a day after the Egyptian Aircraft Accident Investigation Committee announced that searchers had found wreckage from the doomed Flight 804 scattered along the seabed. The French Bureau of Investigations and Analyses at the civil aviation authority confirmed that the cockpit voice recorder had been found. All 66 people aboard the Airbus A320 jetliner bound for Cairo from Paris were killed in the   crash on May 19, as the plane was near the end of its trip, in Egyptian airspace. The investigation committee said in a statement that the cockpit voice recorder had been found in a “damaged state. ” A team aboard the search vessel John Lethbridge, owned by Deep Ocean Search, was able to recover parts of the recorder, including its memory card. The statement said that the device would be sent to prosecutors and investigators in Alexandria, Egypt, and then to the investigative committee’s lab for analysis. Investigators are expected to spend the coming days removing, drying and testing the circuits of the voice recorder’s flash memory chip before trying to download its contents for analysis. If the recordings are readable, investigators can begin transcribing the conversations of the crew and other cockpit sounds captured  —   roughly two hours of data, which could provide clues about what happened during the plane’s descent. Air traffic controllers have said the crew did not communicate any emergency to the ground before radio contact was lost and the plane disappeared from their radar screens. Underwater search teams will also continue to scour the wreckage for the second black box, the flight data recorder, which tracks more than 1, 000 different data points, including the plane’s position, speed, altitude and direction when it began to experience difficulties. Investigators located the cockpit voice recorder, along with several sections of aircraft wreckage, less than two weeks after search teams first detected signals from its   underwater beacons, which emit a distinctive metronomic “ping. ” Provided the second recorder is found undamaged, investigators can try to synchronize its data with the voice recorder’s to make a timeline of what happened in the flight’s final moments. Since the start of the underwater search, however, investigators have only been able to isolate the pings of a single recorder, suggesting that the beacon on the flight data recorder either may not be emitting a signal, or that something  —   perhaps a large piece of wreckage or rock formations on the seabed  —   is muting or obstructing its propagation. Egyptian investigators have said that the batteries powering the EgyptAir jet’s beacons should last until around June 24. The chairman of EgyptAir, Safwat Musallam, said Thursday that “the search team has not picked up anything from the flight data recorder,” but he welcomed the news of the recovery of the cockpit voice recorder. “Of course, thank God, they found something,” Mr. Musallam said. “I was worried they wouldn’t, but I just want quick results. I just want to know what caused this. ” Mr. Musallam also said that he had been in touch regularly with the families of the passengers aboard Flight 804 and that after the discovery Thursday, they are “doing better after this, more or less. ” Wagdy Gerges, a relative of one of the victims, said families were hoping that the information from the voice recorder would “settle things and help them process what happened. ” “We want to know what will be heard,” Mr. Gerges said. “Was it a bomb? The exact details don’t matter to us because they are all gone. We just want to know the main cause. ”