WASHINGTON  —   Emergency financing to fight the   Zika virus appeared likely to be delayed until after Congress returns from its Fourth of July recess, as Democrats on Wednesday sharply criticized a new Republican proposal to provide $1. 1 billion, but with $750 million redirected from other federal programs. Republican House and Senate negotiators have been working to resolve differences between a Senate plan to provide $1. 1 billion in emergency financing for Zika and a House plan that would provide $622 million but would take the money from other programs. Both proposals offered far less money to fight Zika than the $1. 9 billion requested by the Obama administration. Still, Senate Democrats and the White House had indicated some willingness to go along with the Senate plan. But as the Republican negotiators announced Wednesday evening that they had reached a tentative agreement  —   which the House approved early Thursday in a   vote  —   Democrats lashed out. They said the proposal was layered with numerous unrelated provisions that they would never accept, including an effort to restrict government financing of Planned Parenthood, the women’s health organization. While Democrats did not have any sway over the   negotiations, Republicans do not have sufficient votes in the Senate to overcome procedural obstacles and approve the agreement on their own. The White House also said the legislation appeared unacceptable and would further delay the effort to combat the Zika virus, which can cause serious neurological disorders and other deformities in infants born to infected mothers. “While we are still awaiting more details on the legislation, it is clear that once again, Republicans have put political games ahead of the health and safety of the American people, particularly pregnant women and their babies,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. “This plan from congressional Republicans is four months late and nearly a billion dollars short of what our public health experts have said is necessary to do everything possible to fight the Zika virus and steals funding from other health priorities,” Mr. Earnest added. “The fact that the Republican plan limits needed birth control services for women in the United States and Puerto Rico as we seek to stop the spread of a sexually transmitted disease is a clear indication they don’t take seriously the threat from the Zika virus or their responsibility to protect Americans. ” In an announcement late Wednesday, Republicans said their proposal included important restrictions on how the emergency money would be used. “Unlike the administration’s request that allowed overly broad authority for federal agencies to use Zika dollars with little accountability, this legislation places tight controls and oversight on spending to ensure that every dollar is being used appropriately,” the statement from the House Appropriations Committee said. In a statement, Representative Hal Rogers, Republican of Kentucky and chairman of the Appropriations Committee, praised the legislation. “This is a solid agreement that will adequately and effectively fund resources for our troops and their families, our veterans, and to fight and prevent the spread of the Zika virus,” Mr. Rogers said. “It is the product of careful and thorough deliberations between the House and the Senate, and reflects a responsible compromise that can and should be signed into law. ” Mr. Rogers urged Democrats to approve the legislation given the expected arrival of   mosquitoes in the United States. “Mosquito season is upon us these dollars must get out the door now to help control the spread of the Zika virus and continue   efforts to stop this disease, such as vaccine and treatment development and deployment,” he said. But Democrats, including the party’s Senate leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, had nothing but sharp criticism. “A narrowly partisan proposal that cuts off women’s access to birth control, shortchanges veterans and rescinds Obamacare funds to cover the cost is not a serious response to the threat from the Zika virus,” Mr. Reid said in a statement. “In short, Republicans are trying to turn an attempt to protect women’s health into an attack on women’s health. We waited four months for Republicans to do anything to combat Zika. Their proposal would be comical except this a public health emergency and it deserves urgency. ” The money to fight the Zika virus was included in an $82. 5 billion annual appropriations measure covering military construction and veterans’ affairs programs for 2017. Republicans stressed that the legislation would provide $2. 6 billion more for those programs than in 2016, but Democrats said it still did not provide sufficient funding for veterans. It was not immediately clear how congressional leaders might resolve the impasse, or when the federal money for Zika would ultimately be approved.