For his bookshop and website One Grand Books, the editor Aaron Hicklin asked people to name the 10 books they’d take with them if they were marooned on a desert island. Every Friday for the last year, we’ve run one of those lists on TMagazine. com. So many books have been recommended  —   by everyone from James Franco to Alice Waters  —   that it might feel like you need a lifetime (and then another one) to read them all. So, in honor of the July 4th weekend, we’re giving you that time to catch up  —   or at least pick a good book to bring along to the beach. Here, excerpts from 10 of the individuals who have recommended titles over the last several months. Click the link beneath each name to read their whole list. Enjoy! “The Better Angels of Our Nature,” Steven Pinker Proof that the world is becoming more peaceful. It’s not just a question for historians, but a profound statement about human nature and the possibility for a better future. This book may have shaped my outlook more than any other. See more of Bill Gates’s favorite books.  “The Color Purple,” Alice Walker Because she makes the invisible visible, and redeems people who seem irredeemable, she makes every reader feel visible and redeemable, too. See more of Gloria Steinem’s favorite books.  “You’ve Got To Read This: Contemporary American Writers Introduce Stories That Held Them in Awe,” Ron Hansen This anthology is like one of those fateful   nights where you met a boyfriend, a best friend and got a lead on a job. It introduced me to Jim Shepard and Donald Barthelme. I often think of Amy Tan’s introduction of Molly Giles’s story, “Pie Dance. ” Tan writes that upon hearing Giles read the story, she felt she didn’t yet have what it took to be a writer but she “also knew  —   as deeply as you can know something about yourself  —   that it would be worth a lifetime to try. ” That’s one of the most genuine things I’ve ever heard a writer say about another writer. See more of Sloane Crosley’s favorite books. “A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction,” Christopher Alexander, Sara Ishikawa and Murray Silverstein Who needs a big place to live in? You need a front porch, you need a busy street, you need neighbors to say hello and good night to and you need a bedroom to restore yourself. This is a book you can open on any page. You might find a drawing of the narrow streets of Ethiopia, or a chapter titled “Dancing in the Streets,” which is something people have done forever. See more of Alice Waters’s favorite books.  “What Maisie Knew,” Henry James A brilliant social comedy seen wholly from a child’s point of view, this is a dazzling technical feat that, as always with James, deepens as it develops  —   like the life of the child herself. An exhilarating prelude to the great novels of his famous late phase. See more of Alan Hollinghurst’s favorite books.  “The Fire Next Time,” James Baldwin Basically the finest essay I’ve ever read. It’s technically two essays but it feels like one. Baldwin refused to hold anyone’s hand. He was both direct and beautiful all at once. He did not seem to write to convince you. He wrote beyond you. See more of   Coates’s favorite books.  “Women,” Chloe Caldwell Sexy, sexy   hybrid that could turn anyone into a lesbian, at least for a summer. See more of Lena Dunham’s favorite books. “Birds of America,” Lorrie Moore Long before I started to write in earnest, Lorrie Moore taught me you could have a woman narrator who was funny and complex and even wrongheaded. She opened up a lot of space that me and a million other women rushed into. See more of Miranda July’s favorite books. “The Autumn of the Patriarch,” Gabriel García Márquez Picking a Márquez novel is a near impossible task. It’s too easy to just go with the obvious choice( s). But this is his most daring novel, and the labyrinthine twists and turns of each sentence demands undivided attention  —   so perfect for a desert island, then. See more of Marlon James’ favorite books.  “Miles: The Autobiography,” Miles Davis and Quincy Troupe If I could have a meal with anyone, it would be Miles Davis. It would be so cool to hear his stories and sit back and talk about jazz. Miles moved to New York around the same age as I did, and he was a transformative player in the evolution of jazz music as we know it. This autobiography was his chance to tell all. See more of Marcus Samuelsson’s favorite books.