WARSAW  —   President Obama on Friday deplored the shooting deaths of five police officers in Dallas, saying there was “no possible justification” for such a “vicious, calculated and despicable attack on law enforcement. ” “We are horrified over these events,” he said, “and we stand united with the people and the Police Department in Dallas. ” Mr. Obama said that he had spoken to Mayor Mike Rawlings of Dallas, and that the F. B. I. was in contact with the Dallas authorities. The president said nearly a dozen police officers had been shot, several were wounded, and five had died. The president cautioned that a lot about the attack was still not known. “But let’s be clear,” he said, “there’s no possible justification for these kinds of attacks, or any violence against law enforcement. ” Mr. Obama’s remarks, delivered in Warsaw after a meeting with European leaders, were the second time in less than 12 hours that he had interrupted his trip to the NATO summit meeting to address a surge of   violence on American streets. Earlier on Friday, he spoke about shootings by police officers in Minnesota and Louisiana, which he said were “symptomatic of a broader set of racial disparities that exist in our criminal justice system. ” Mr. Obama emphasized that his critique, however impassioned, should not be interpreted as an attack on law enforcement itself. Now, Mr. Obama finds himself condemning those who targeted police officers in Dallas during a protest against those shootings. “Today is a wrenching reminder of the sacrifices they make for us,” he said. “Anyone involved in the senseless murders will be held fully accountable,” Mr. Obama said. “Justice will be done. ” The sudden escalation of violence in the United States left the president clearly shaken, and it raised questions about whether he would curtail his trip. After the   summit meeting in Warsaw, Mr. Obama is scheduled to fly to Spain for a day of sightseeing in Seville, a visit with American troops at a naval base and lunch with King Felipe VI. White House officials had no announcements on the president’s itinerary, but officials said the situation was in flux. Even before the news from the United States, the NATO meeting was opening amid an atmosphere of disarray. European leaders are grappling with the continuing fallout from Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and with how to confront renewed Russian aggression on the border with Ukraine. It is not the first time that outside events have disrupted a foreign trip by Mr. Obama. In March, during a historic trip to Cuba, he awoke to news of deadly terrorist attacks in  Brussels. In the fall, he set off on a    trip shortly after the terrorist attacks in Paris that killed 130 people. In both cases, he stuck to his schedule. Mr. Obama has had to walk a fine line in reacting to the deadly skein of shootings, balancing his call for rooting out racial injustice with compassion for the sacrifices made by police officers. Earlier on Friday, he spoke of receiving letters from law enforcement officials after a shooting by a police officer, in which they ask, “How come we’re under attack? How come not as much emphasis is made when police officers are shot?” But he said that did not change the fact that there are biases in the criminal justice system that need to be rooted out. And he said that people should not condemn the protests, vigils and other public responses to shootings as a form of political correctness. “When people say black lives matter, that doesn’t mean blue lives don’t matter,” Mr. Obama said. “It just means all lives matter. ” Still, he added, “The data shows black folks are more vulnerable to these kinds of incidents. ” Mr. Obama recited statistics on police stops and searches, as well as sentences and incarceration rates, which showed that blacks and Hispanics were treated differently from whites. “We can do better,” he said. “People of good will can do better. ”