At a moment when all eyes are glued to the tumult of escalating news headlines, let’s take a few hours, a day, perhaps even a long weekend to take refuge in the stories that transcend the news cycle and the books that more deeply explain the forces behind it. From the new Zadie Smith novel to Wesley Lowery’s penetrating look at   lives (and deaths) in America, these books will elucidate, offer escape from and  —   with luck  —   outlive the noisy politics of our times. Pamela PaulEditor of The New York Times Book Review THEY CAN’T KILL US ALL: Ferguson, Baltimore, and a New Era in America’s Racial Justice Movement, by Wesley Lowery (Little, Brown, $27.) In his review, our critic Dwight Garner wrote that this book by a young Washington Post reporter is “electric, because it is so well reported, so plainly told and so evidently the work of a man who has not grown a callus on his heart. ” SWING TIME, by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $27.) Two multiracial girls in North London dream of becoming dancers (one has talent, the other doesn’t) in Smith’s exuberant new novel about friendship, music, race and global politics. Come on, it’s Zadie. You know you want to read it. TESTIMONY, by Robbie Robertson. (Crown Archetype, $30.) The lead guitarist and principal songwriter for the Band has written a confident and   memoir that is packed with incident. At times it has the mythic sweep of an early Terrence Malick movie, according to Dwight Garner. MUSLIM GIRL: A Coming of Age, by Amani  . (Simon  Schuster, $20.) This memoir of growing up Muslim American in the wake of   was published earlier than originally planned because it’s so timely and enlightening. The most haunting line: After   the young author’s father tells her, “They’re going to blame us. ” THE   by David Constantine. (Biblioasis, paper, $14. 95.) Our reviewer, Stacey D’Erasmo, gave this book an   rave and compared it to the recent critically acclaimed film “45 Years. ” In David Constantine’s lyrical novel, a widow immerses herself in the letters her late husband received from an earlier lover. NEWS OF THE WORLD, by Paulette Jiles. (  $22. 99.) In a novel shortlisted for the National Book Award, a septuagenarian widower and a    girl who was captured by the Kiowa travel across   War Texas. NOBODY’S SON: A Memoir, by Mark Slouka. (Norton, $26. 95.) Mark Slouka, a novelist, offers an intrepid memoir of a chaotic childhood. Here’s one memorable line, something the author’s mother told him when he was only 17 and contemplating suicide: “Life was a death sentence. ” Imagine growing up with that. IZA’S BALLAD, by Magda Szabo. Translated by George Szirtes. (New York Review, paper, $16. 95.) A meditative Hungarian novel about grief and history by the author of “The Door,” one of the Book Review’s 10 Best Books of 2015.