(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1.   Donald Trump was criticized from across the political spectrum for his baseless claim on Twitter that he lost the popular vote because millions cast ballots illegally. California’s top election official called the allegations absurd and said Mr. Trump’s “reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming. ” Mr. Trump made the claim after Hillary Clinton’s campaign agreed to participate in a recount effort in Wisconsin and possibly two other states. ____ 2. Mr. Trump has resumed holding transition meetings at his headquarters in New York, Trump Tower, which has been heavily fortified as a kind of White House North. As suspense continued over whether Mitt Romney would be chosen for secretary of state, Mr. Trump set up meetings with two other possibilities: the retired Gen. David Petraeus, above, and Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. We took a close look at Steve Bannon, the incendiary figure whom Mr. Trump appointed as chief White House strategist. Mr. Bannon once told a colleague that Mr. Trump was an “imperfect vessel” for the revolution he had in mind. But they bonded anyway. ____ 3. Cuba began nine days of mourning for Fidel Castro, only to be jarred by Mr. Trump’s threat on Twitter to “terminate deal” to normalize diplomatic relations. It is now up to Fidel’s brother, Raúl Castro, who assumed presidential powers in 2006, to steer the country. Their sister, an outspoken critic of Fidel Castro living in Miami, had not spoken to him in decades but was nonetheless upset by exiles’ celebrations of his death. Here’s our full obituary of Fidel Castro. ____ 4. Syrian rebels lost a large stretch of territory in the city of Aleppo to government forces and Kurdish fighters, a possible turning point in the grinding civil war. Residents described horrifying scenes of people being killed by shells as they searched for shelter. They said it was the heaviest bombardment yet in years of war. “It’s like doomsday,” one activist said. ____ 5. Nine people were injured on the campus of Ohio State University when a student drove his car onto the sidewalk and then stabbed several people with a butcher knife. The attacker, identified as Abdul Artan, 18, was shot dead within about a minute by a campus police officer. ____ 6. A federal judge granted Dylann Storm Roof’s request to represent himself in his capital trial on charges of killing nine   churchgoers in Charleston, S. C. That means the avowed white supremacist could   survivors of the massacre and family members of the dead. Mr. Roof has offered to plead guilty to the 33 charges against him in exchange for a life sentence. ____ 7. Officials in sanctuary cities across the country are gearing up to oppose Mr. Trump if he follows through on his campaign promise to deport millions of illegal immigrants. They say they will continue to limit local law enforcement cooperation with federal immigration agents. In doing so, they risk losing federal funding. “We are not going to use our resources to enforce what we believe are unjust immigration laws,” the mayor of Oakland, Calif. said. ____ 8. In the coal country of West Virginia, where Mr. Trump pummeled Mrs. Clinton, Appalachians are eyeing Washington with a feeling they have not had in years: hope. That’s despite the predictions that coal will never come back and that the only way to revive the economy is to diversify it. “I don’t think he can ever fulfill all the promises he made even in four or eight years,” said one man who lost his job at a coal company last year. “But I think we’re headed in the right direction. ” ___ 9. A Cold War battle playing out in Lower Manhattan for the last three weeks  —   through the medium of chess  —   will last another game. Sergey Karjakin, a Russian, left, and Magnus Carlsen, a Norwegian and the defending world champion, ended the final regulation game in the    World Chess Championship in a draw. They will meet again to try to break the tie on Wednesday. ___ 10. Finally, what’s worth watching tonight? Our answer: Two HBO documentaries that capture Cuba on the brink of change (good time to watch!) and “Don’t Look Back,” D. A. Pennebaker’s chronicle of Bob Dylan’s 1965 British concert tour, which is streaming on Filmstruck. ___ Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p. m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a. m. Sundays. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes. com.