WASHINGTON  —   Emboldened by their electoral prospects in November, Democrats are planning to redouble their efforts to make the fate of the Supreme Court a signature election issue, with the Democratic leader in the Senate threatening to stall Republican legislative priorities if no action is taken on the confirmation of Judge Merrick B. Garland. The Senate has been stuck in a stalemate since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February left a vacancy on the bench. Republicans have refused to hold confirmation hearings on President Obama’s nominee, insisting that the next president should make the choice. But with Donald J. Trump’s poll numbers sliding, the Democratic leadership sees an opening to derail Republicans who are facing   by blaming them for the delay. “We’re not going to back off,” Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic minority leader, said in an interview this week. “There will be things we are going to do to draw more attention to this. ” He predicted that the Republican presidential nominee’s prospects would decline further by next month, adding, “By then, they are going to have to look for some way to break from Donald Trump. ” Republicans find themselves in a precarious position on the issue. After insisting that voters should be allowed a voice on Judge Garland’s fate through the election of Mr. Obama’s successor, their nominee is now faltering and the Republican Senate majority is now in doubt. Adding to the pressure on Republicans to act is speculation that Hillary Clinton, if elected, could nominate someone who is more liberal than Judge Garland. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, has been adamant that Mr. Obama not be allowed to name a Supreme Court justice in his last year in office  —   a position he took when a Republican appeared more likely to win the White House. Reversing himself now would invite accusations that his position was based on politics, not principles, all along. Mr. Reid would not say what kinds of procedural moves Democrats might employ to pressure Republicans when Congress reconvenes in early September, but he suggested that there were plenty of options to stop up the Senate’s business, including some that Republicans have used. “They’ve blocked all legislation, they’ve blocked nominations, they’ve filibustered all kinds of things,” Mr. Reid said. “We haven’t done that, but it doesn’t mean we can’t do it when we come back. ” But time will be limited: Lawmakers will have just over a month to address issues such as a Zika funding bill, a stopgap measure to keep the government open and an annual defense policy bill before many of them return to the campaign trail in early October. Democrats have tried to drum up outrage around the court vacancy before, only to have attention fizzle under the glare of the presidential election and debates about trade, terrorism and immigration. White House officials said the president and his advisers would continue to make a public case for Judge Garland’s confirmation. Mr. Obama wrote an   in The Wall Street Journal on the subject in July, and aides said the president would push the issue even as he campaigns for Mrs. Clinton. “As soon as Republicans are ready to be done with their historic obstruction, we stand ready for a hearing and a vote,” said Brandi Hoffine, a White House spokeswoman. In addition, a coalition of liberal interest groups will continue to demand a hearing for Judge Garland from the handful of Republican senators who face tough   fights this year. The hope is that the senators will feel pressure from their constituents and, in turn, urge Mr. McConnell to allow the nomination to proceed. But Mr. Obama’s Democratic allies concede that the message about Mr. Garland is being swamped by the presidential race, and that it has become only one small part of the campaign against the Republicans. Many now believe that Mr. Garland’s confirmation will not be resolved until after the election. Another obstacle is a lack of enthusiasm for Judge Garland among the Democratic Party’s progressive base. Adam Green, a   of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, said that he was hopeful that Republicans would continue to block Judge Garland’s confirmation before the election and in the   period. With Mrs. Clinton’s improved prospects of winning, he said he hoped she would pick someone more liberal. “Garland was the most conservative pick a Democratic president could have made,” Mr. Green said. Neil Sroka, the communications director at Democracy for America, agreed, arguing that the party’s base is not excited about adding a moderate, white man to the court. “If Secretary Clinton wins the White House,” Mr. Sroka said, “she should absolutely swing for the fences. ” For her part, Mrs. Clinton has praised Judge Garland’s qualifications as a jurist and argued that Republicans should confirm him now, but she has avoided questions about whether she would renominate him if she wins. Some have speculated that she could nominate someone who is more liberal than Judge Garland, while others suggested she might stick with him to avoid a fight with Republicans. Asked this month if Judge Garland should be confirmed in the   period if Mrs. Clinton wins, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, her running mate, demurred but said he would vote for him if given the chance. “This will be for the president and the   to decide,” Mr. Kaine said on NBC’s “Meet the Press. ” “But look, if it comes up for a vote in the Senate, Merrick Garland gets so far over the hurdle of the fitness and character test that is supposed to be the legitimate question for nominees, of course I’d vote for him. ” Legal experts continue to consider different situations, such as a recess appointment by Mr. Obama or the possibility that he could renominate Judge Garland when the new Congress takes over in January before he departs. A vote in the   period, however, appears to be the most realistic possibility. “If Hillary Clinton were to prevail, I think the odds are pretty good that Garland would be confirmed in lame duck,” said David B. Rivkin Jr. a constitutional litigator who worked in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Mr. Rivkin said Judge Garland should be a relatively palatable pick for Republicans. Despite Mr. Trump’s recent controversies and his slip in national and state polls, the Republican leadership is still holding firm that confirmation hearings will not happen this year regardless of the outcome of the presidential election. “No, we’re not going to confirm Garland this year,” Mr. McConnell told a Kentucky television station this week. “Whoever the next president is will get to make that appointment. ” Mr. McConnell said that he would stick to that position, even if it meant Mrs. Clinton picking a more liberal judge. “I think the next president will have been chosen by the American people to make this appointment, and we have to live with whoever is ultimately chosen,” he said. But some Senate Republicans have expressed a desire for more flexibility. Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona said in June that he thought a vote should be allowed if it appears that Mr. Trump is going to lose the election. Senator Susan Collins of Maine and Senator Mark S. Kirk of Illinois have also said that hearings should move forward. Mr. Reid predicts that such sentiment will become more common if Mr. Trump proves to be a drag on other candidates on the ballot and if he continues to make missteps. He said that Mr. McConnell’s intransigence was improving the chances for Democratic candidates in Florida, Illinois, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, and that he expected Democrats to retake control of the Senate. “If they have this death wish, and that’s what it is,” Mr. Reid said, “they are going to end up losing really, really big. ”