As Feyisa Lilesa of Ethiopia crossed the finish line in his   marathon run at the Rio Olympics on Sunday, he raised his arms and crossed them in an X, a gesture of protest against his country’s government that he said could get him killed if he returned home. He is uncertain where he will go next, and what will become of his wife and two children in Ethiopia. “If I go back to Ethiopia, maybe they will kill me,” he said at a news conference after the race, according to The Sydney Morning Herald. “If I am not killed, maybe they will put me in prison. ” Ethiopia’s communications minister, Getachew Reda, told CNN that Mr. Lilesa “shouldn’t at all be worried” to return, calling him an “Ethiopian hero. ” “I can assure you nothing is going to happen to his family nothing is going to happen to him,” Mr. Reda said. An accomplished distance runner who has one of the 50 fastest marathon times, Mr. Lilesa defied an Olympic prohibition on political demonstrations to make his statement, raising his arms again in protest at an award ceremony after the race. He told reporters he had not discussed the protest ahead of time with others, including his manager, teammates and family, out of fear for his safety. Soon after his gesture, Mr. Lelisa quickly attracted supporters on social media. Antigovernment protests in Ethiopia, an American ally that has experienced stability and a growing economy over the past decade, have been growing recently, with thousands of people demanding political changes. Human rights groups say the protests have been met by brutal crackdowns by the government, including the shooting deaths of unarmed protesters. A Human Rights Watch report in June estimated that more than 400 people had been killed in seven months, almost all of them civilians. Protesters in the Oromo ethnic group, Ethiopia’s largest, say they feel marginalized. The Tigrayan ethnic group makes up about 6 percent of the population but dominates in politics, the military and commerce. “The Ethiopian government is killing my people, so I stand with all protests anywhere, as Oromo is my tribe,” Mr. Lilesa said, according to The Washington Post. “My relatives are in prison, and if they talk about democratic rights they are killed. ” Seyoum Teshome, a university lecturer in central Ethiopia, predicted that the Ethiopian government will indeed treat Mr. Lelisa like a hero, at least publicly. “They will not do anything silly against that guy,” he said. “The whole world knows about him now,” Mr. Teshome said. “If they arrest him, it will be a huge mistake and create a further disturbance. ” The Ethiopian government is known to be quite adept at damage control, using urbane officials to deflect criticism. So far, it seems to have worked. Human rights groups have complained for years about repression and brutality inside Ethiopia, but the government continues to maintain friendly ties with the West, which sees Ethiopia as a stable ally in a region that has been plagued by violent extremism and chaos. President Obama, for example, visited Ethiopia in 2015. Mr. Teshome said, however, that Mr. Lilesa’s act  —   crossing his arms at a moment when millions were watching him on TV  —   had been a blow to the carefully constructed image the government has tried to project. He said that many Ethiopians were impressed by Mr. Lelisa’s courage, and that “everybody is talking about it” in the town where Mr. Teshome lives, Woliso, and across social media. But Mr. Teshome said that on Monday, the   media was not broadcasting any images of Mr. Lelisa with his arms crossed. “This was what the government was afraid of,” he said. Mr. Lelisa told reporters on Sunday he did not know where he would go next, but mentioned Kenya and the United States as possibilities, according to a video from LetsRun. com. Mr. Teshome said he expected that Mr. Lelisa would not return to Ethiopia, even if officials pledged he would be safe. “Whether they treat him well or not doesn’t make a difference he was protesting what happens to his people, the killing of his people,” Mr. Teshome said. “We are living in a dictatorial state, a totalitarian state. ”