Tara Wall was eager to help Donald J. Trump win over   voters, just as she had for President George W. Bush. But when she met with his campaign staff, she learned that the candidate did not share her enthusiasm. “It was made clear to me that that was not their focus,” Ms. Wall told The   in our latest podcast. “They weren’t focused on or weren’t planning to do any significant outreach to black voters,” Ms. Wall says. “They were focused on   white  —   suburban, in some cases  —   voters. ” In this episode, we explore how Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, is faring so poorly with black voters, according to polls. We also assess where both parties stand with the black electorate: whether the Republican Party is ready to have an honest conversation about race, and whether the Democratic Party, which has benefited so much from Mr. Trump’s blunders with black voters, deserves the overwhelming support of   it has garnered this year. Ms. Wall, a veteran black campaign operative, offers a candid,    assessment. Few have had her insider’s perspective: as an adviser to President Bush, the last Republican presidential candidate to carry, in 2004, 11 percent of the black vote  —   a relative   mark for Republicans  —   and as an aide to Mitt Romney, who failed to match that level of support in 2012. We also talk with the New York Times columnist Charles Blow and the reporter Yamiche Alcindor, who have both covered the campaign and its racial dynamics for the past two years. Mr. Blow discusses the difficult choice this election. “One party approaches you with a philosophy of pain, and the other approaches you with a philosophy of pity,” he says. “And most black people, I would venture, don’t want either. ” But he warns about false equivalency. “Have Democrats been perfect? Of course they haven’t. But there are actual attacks on individual people of color in this country,” he says, speaking of efforts to enact stricter voter registration laws. “Everyone knows the net effect of them will be a disproportionate impact on poor people and minorities and, in particular, black people,” he said, “and those are, for the most part, Republican legislatures doing that. ” Despite not being perfect, as Mr. Blow says, the Democratic Party  —   Hillary Clinton in particular  —   has overwhelming support from black voters. A recent poll shows Mrs. Clinton with 91 percent of the black vote, compared to 1 percent for Mr. Trump. I ask Ms. Alcindor whether Mrs. Clinton has earned that. She thought back to what she heard while covering Bernie Sanders. “Bernie Sanders would say this thing: ‘People don’t know me, which is why they’re not flocking to me.   don’t know me,’ ” she recalls. “I think that the voters that Bernie Sanders thought were ignoring him because they didn’t know him  —   I think they knew who Bernie Sanders was. “  that I interviewed, they knew exactly who Bernie Sanders was,” she says, “and they weren’t picking him. They were picking Hillary Clinton. ” Please let us know what you think of The  . You can reach us at therunup@nytimes. com, or find me on Twitter. You can also rate and review us on iTunes. From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above. Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series. On your iPhone or iPad: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “The  ” and select it from the list of results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode. On your Android phone or tablet: 1. Open your podcast app. It’s a   app called “Play Music” with an    icon. (This link might help.) 2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of results. You may have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results. 3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free. 4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode.