The top aid official at the United Nations gave a gloomy assessment of the Syria relief effort on Monday, saying no convoy deliveries had been made to besieged areas this month and that the suffering in Aleppo, once Syria’s commercial epicenter, was the “apex of horror. ” In a briefing to the Security Council, the official, Stephen O’Brien, the under secretary general for humanitarian affairs, said that while he welcomed Russia’s support last week for a     in Aleppo  —   as he had proposed earlier in the month  —   there had been no assurances from other combatants. “This cannot be a   offer,” Mr. O’Brien said. “Plans are in place, but we need the agreement of all parties to let us do our job. ” United Nations officials have said that the fighting in Aleppo  —   pitting Syrian government forces and their Russian backers against an array of insurgents, including Islamist militants  —   has left 275, 000 people in   eastern Aleppo completely cut off from food, water and medicine, and has severely limited aid deliveries to 1. 5 million people in   western Aleppo. Humanitarian access to hundreds of thousands of Syrians in other combat zones has been blocked by fighting, security concerns and the Syrian bureaucracy, Mr. O’Brien said, despite an international agreement reached in May to permit truck convoy deliveries. As a result, Mr. O’Brien said, no convoys were dispatched in August, despite some successful, if limited, deliveries in July. “We unfortunately appear to be, once again, in reverse gear,” Mr. O’Brien said. He described the crisis in Aleppo, portrayed in images of dead and wounded children like that of a    boy pulled from the rubble last week, as “the apex of horror at its most horrific extent of the suffering of people. ” While he said efforts were still underway to secure the proposed     in Aleppo, Mr. O’Brien expressed little hope of avoiding “a humanitarian catastrophe unparalleled in the over five years of bloodshed and carnage in the Syrian conflict. ”