Inmates were holding two people hostage at a Delaware prison on Wednesday night in a standoff that began in the morning and left at least one prison employee injured, officials said. The hostages were taken at the James T. Vaughn Correctional Center, near the town of Smyrna, between Wilmington and Dover. It is the state’s largest prison, with 2, 500 inmates in     and   units. At a news conference on Wednesday night, officials revealed that a total of 27 inmates had been released by the   but it was unclear whether they had been held against their will and how many inmates remained. Officials said four staff members had initially been taken hostage. Early accounts put that number at five, though officials said one person had not been accounted for at first but was later found to be safe. Robert Coupe, the secretary of the Delaware Department of Safety and Homeland Security, said at the news conference at about 8:15 p. m. that the authorities were communicating with the inmates via a   radio belonging to a correctional officer. Inmates also have access to television and may have been watching a live broadcast of the news conference, he added. At 10:32 a. m. “a correctional officer made a radio call for immediate assistance from within C Building, which houses over 100 inmates,” Sgt. Richard Bratz of the Delaware State Police said at a news conference earlier on Wednesday. The building houses   inmates who are making the transition to medium security. Other correction officers responded to the distress call, and the prison was placed on lockdown, but inmates took four employees hostage. At about 2:40 p. m. one hostage was set free and taken by ambulance to a hospital, Sergeant Bratz said, “with   injuries. ” Eight inmates were released at 5:20 p. m. Shortly before 8 p. m. another staff member and 19 inmates were released. Their conditions were not immediately known. The News Journal newspaper reported that a woman had called its newsroom, stated that she was a hostage and haltingly read a statement that she said had been given to her by the inmates, complaining of mistreatment. She said the prisoners had forbidden her to give her name, and when asked how many inmates were holding her, she said she did not know because “they’ve got my face covered. ” Officials declined to discuss specifics of the inmates’ demands. Mr. Coupe said that once the takeover was resolved peacefully, “a dialogue can start then. ” Scores of law enforcement officers in riot gear, with armored vehicles, gathered around the prison’s buildings. Sergeant Bratz said officials were in contact with the   but he gave no details about their demands or the progress of negotiations. “We are doing everything we can to ensure the safety of everyone involved,” he said. As a precaution, the Department of Correction placed all of the state’s prisons on lockdown. On a rural road along the prison perimeter, Carla Vereen was waiting in her car for news of her husband, who has worked in the prison as a corrections officer for 16 years. Ms. Vereen said she had not heard directly from her husband or from the prison authorities since the hostage crisis began. Also waiting was a former inmate, Rollin Lee Laub, who said he was not surprised to hear the reports that some inmates had taken hostages. “They took everything from these guys so they had nothing but idle time, which is the devil’s workshop,” said Mr. Laub, who was released from the prison in 2014 after serving almost 40 years.