One of the nation’s most exclusive prep schools  —   whose graduates include both former Secretary of State John F. Kerry and the new Russia probe special counsel Robert Mueller  —   has just issued a scandalous,     report outlining four decades of   sexual abuse of students by faculty and administrators. [St. Paul’s School in Concord, NH, this week named 13 former faculty and staffers and also listed, without naming them, more than a dozen other former teachers and staffers who allegedly assaulted and raped various male and female students between 1948 and 1988.  The report was signed by Luther Scott Harshbarger, a former attorney general of Massachusetts, and was commissioned by the school’s board of trustees, whose chairman is Archibald Cox. Cox’s father was the late Watergate special counsel who was fired by   Richard Nixon in the   Saturday Night Massacre of 1973. Both Coxs are graduates of the school. Other famous Democrats who have graduated from the posh school with Episcopal roots include Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse ( ) and the late Michael Kennedy, son of Robert F. Kennedy. Jr. Kennedy was accused of having an affair with his family’s    babysitter before dying by skiing into a tree in Aspen in 1997. Other famous St. Paul’s alumni include former NYC Mayor John V. Lindsay and the late TV actor Efrem Zimbalist Jr. The late U. S. Rep. Gerry Studds ( ) the first openly homosexual member of Congress, taught at the school for years before abruptly resigning from the faculty in the early 1970s. A decade later Studds was censured by Congress for having an affair with a    male page after plying him with vodka and cranberry juice while on a foreign trip. Two years ago, a 2014 graduate of the elite prep school was convicted of sexually assaulting a then    female student. Owen Labrie’s appeal for a new trial was recently denied.  Other exclusive New England prep schools have in recent years admitted to decades of   sex scandals, including the Choate School in Wallingford, CT, from which President John F. Kennedy graduated. Last year, Philips Exeter Academy in Exeter, NH, was roiled by a sex scandal involving a former English teacher that came to light after the resignation of the headmaster, who was married to  . now Sen. Maggie Hasson.  But the new St. Paul’s report dwarfs all of the earlier accounts in its volume of detail, which includes accounts from dozens of former students, who are often quoted as describing the school as either “strange,” “creepy” or “very creepy. ” During his lifetime, Studds was unapologetic about his behavior with young males, including the    page with whom he had what he described as a “consensual” relationship. Studds was censured in the House by a vote of   after reading a statement defending his conduct with his back turned to his Congressional colleagues. A heterosexual Republican from downstate Illinois censured at the same time quickly resigned from Congress in shame. But Studds adamantly refused to quit and was subsequently reelected by his Massachusetts constituents. He died in 2006. One, Faculty 20, who taught there in “the late 1960’s,” once “molested” a male student in the front seat of his car and also reportedly held “dorm meetings in the nude with ‘all of the boys’ also nude in his   apartment. ” Another predatory homosexual teacher “in the late 1960’s and early 1970’s” was called Faculty 23. According to one account, an alumnus only identified as “Student 69” reported that this gay teacher “was in another male student’s dorm room and rubbed Vaseline on the student’s testicles. The male student was offended and requested that Faculty 23 stop. Faculty 23 allegedly threatened the student and said, ‘You can’t tell me what to do, I’m a teacher. ’” St. Paul’s often wrote glowing recommendations for the faculty perverts it wanted to get rid of. In one case listed in the report, one of the former teachers dismissed for “boundary issues with boys” was later fired from his new school for “inappropriate relationships” with his new male charges. A former vice rector at the school recalled getting a phone call from an administrator at the new school asking why St. Paul’s hadn’t accurately informed them of the educator’s record. The St. Paul’s administrator said he replied, “Why didn’t you contact us about him?” “We didn’t check his references,” the administrator said, “because he was coming from St. Paul’s. ” Howie Carr is a New York Times   author of Kennedy Babylon: A Century of Scandal and Depravity and a   talk radio host. 