After   comedian Kathy Griffin posed with a bludgeoned   severed head of President Donald Trump, social media has exploded with reactions to the controversial photo. [The image of Griffin, obtained by TMZ, depicts a gory, severed version of Trump’s head, as the former Fashion Police host stands with a cold expression on her face.  Now, social media users have gone online to express their disgust for the image: Of course CNN will probably keep Kathy Griffin on the payroll for their annual New Years Eve coverage, cuz they want Trump dead too.  Sad.  —   Mark Dice (@MarkDice) May 30, 2017,  ”Get over the Kathy Griffin picture you ❄️ what’s the matter? It’s just a photo”  —   people hysterical over a peeing dog statue this morning,  —   Stephen Miller (@redsteeze) May 30, 2017,  Hey @CNN do you condone Kathy Griffin’s views? Will she be hosting New Year’s Eve Live again with @AC360? pic. twitter.   —   Nick Short (@PoliticalShort) May 30, 2017,  NOT FUNNY:  Kathy Griffin ’Beheads’ Trump  …     https:  .   —   DRUDGE REPORT (@DRUDGE_REPORT) May 30, 2017,  When did Kathy Griffin join ISIS? https:  .   —   Brittany Pettibone (@BrittPettibone) May 30, 2017,  These people are Satanic. Does @andersoncooper perform death rituals with his good friend and   Kathy Griffin? Or even sicker stuff? https:  .   —   Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) May 30, 2017,  Imagine the meltdown if a conservative celebrity had posed with a   of Obama’s decapitated head. https:  .   —   Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) May 30, 2017,  Hey @andersoncooper and @cnn  —   why do you associate with a person who wants to behead Trump? https:  .   —   toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) May 30, 2017,  Feminists: ’Peeing pug’ is misogynist extremism, Same Feminists: ’Kathy Griffin beheading Trump is empowering, edgy art’ pic. twitter.   —   Chet Cannon (@Chet_Cannon) May 30, 2017,  If you’re CNN, you announce immediately that Kathy Griffin will no longer be hosting your New Year’s Eve special right now   hesitation. https:  .   —   Joe Concha (@JoeConchaTV) May 30, 2017,  . @maggieNYT, will you ask @kathygriffin to go easy on @realDonaldTrump because he has a young son? Or do you only do that for pedophiles?  —   John Cardillo (@johncardillo) May 30, 2017,  Does @donlemon support this Satanism? What does he and his   Kathy Griffin do? @andersoncooper pic. twitter.   —   Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) May 30, 2017,  Meanwhile, mainstream media reports downplayed the photo of Griffin, shifting the conversation to another topic: Trump is gonna tweet about kathy griffin isn’t he,  —   Asawin Suebsaeng (@swin24) May 30, 2017,  No promises, but I’m hoping to keep @TheAtlantic free of news about both Chuck Woolery and Kathy Griffin.  —   Jeffrey Goldberg (@JeffreyGoldberg) May 30, 2017,  btw, here’s what one person from   who is active on 4chan just sent me re: the Kathy Griffin photo and giving the right ammo : pic. twitter.   —   Charlie Warzel (@cwarzel) May 30, 2017,  Is Kathy Griffin the Leader of the Democratic Party?  —   Tim Dotcom (@timothypmurphy) May 30, 2017,  ”Why don’t more libs condemn Kathy Griffin? !”  Prob same reason more cons didn’t condemn Nugent? Bc they’re dumb  fodder for dumb outrage.  —   Andrew Kirell (@AndrewKirell) May 30, 2017,  I’m already exhausted by the amount of disingenuous moral outrage this will drum up https:  .   —   eve peyser (@evepeyser) May 30, 2017,  Griffin has forced her way into the mainstream, hosting CNN’s New Year’s Eve special for the last few years with Anderson Cooper. The    spokesperson also enjoyed a long run on Andy Cohen’s Bravo network as the star of the reality show My Life on The  . Representatives for CNN and Griffin did not immediately respond to Breitbart News’ request for comment.