A gunman, identified by authorities as Esteban   26, is reportedly in custody after at least five people were shot and killed at Ft.   International airport Friday. [Wearing a Star Wars   the shooter reportedly opened fire at the baggage carousel in Terminal 2.  Update 6:06 pm ET: Alaska Army Nat’l Guard: Florida airport gunman received general discharge Aug. 16, 2016, for unsatisfactory performance.  —   NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:48 pm ET: New photo shows   in a keffiyeh: Pictured: The Fort Lauderdale ’air rage’ gunman https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   Daily Mail US (@DailyMail) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:44 pm ET: Confirmed: The site of the shooting was a   zone. Update 5:36 pm ET: MORE: In 2011 or 2012, suspect was investigated for child porn, but there was not enough evidence to prosecute, sources tell CBS News.  —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:33 pm ET:  ’s aunt tells a local reporter that the young man “‘lost his mind’ after a tour of duty in Iraq. ” Update 5:29 pm ET: ”I don’t ever want this to happen again,” FL Gov. Rick Scott says after deadly Fort Lauderdale Airport shooting: https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:24 pm ET: 20th street in Union City, NJ is blocked off where the FBI is speaking to the aunt of #floridaairport shooter #EstebanSantiago. pic. twitter.   —   Darla Miles (@DarlaMiles7) January 6, 2017,  #BREAKING: Brother of airport shooting suspect Esteban Santiago says he received psychological treatment in Alaska, served in Nat’l Guard,  —   WSVN 7 News (@wsvn) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:17 pm ET: Canadian Embassy: Shooter did not fly from Canada and was not on a Canadian flight. #FtLauderdale pic. twitter.   —   Fox News (@FoxNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:08 pm ET: MORE: Ft. Lauderdale shooting suspect received mental health treatment after being in contact with FBI, sources say. https:  .   —   ABC News (@ABC) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:04 pm ET: Air Canada denies reports that Santiago was a passenger on one of its flights: We confirm we have no record of a passenger by the name Esteban Santiago, or checked guns, on any of our flights to Fort Lauderdale #FLL    —   Air Canada (@AirCanada) January 6, 2017,  Update 5:00 pm ET: NEW: In Nov. 2016, FLL suspect walked into FBI office in Anchorage, claiming he was being forced to fight for ISIS, sources tell CBS News.  —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 4:55 pm ET: NEW: Image of Fort Lauderdale Int’l Airport shooting suspect Esteban Santiago, law enforcement sources confirm. https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 4:36 pm ET: Suspect appears to have used a pistol. NEW: Image of firearm believed to be used by Ft. Lauderdale Int’l Airport shooter, ID’d as Esteban Santiago https:  .  pic. twitter.   —   CBS News (@CBSNews) January 6, 2017,  Update 3:49 pm ET: According to Fox News, the suspected Ft. Lauderdale gunman “was a passenger on a Canadian Air Flight and checked his gun. He claimed his bag, took the gun from the bag, went into the bathroom and loaded it, came out and started shooting. ” Law enforcement officials are now saying at least 13 people were wounded. The gunman was reportedly taken into custody without law enforcement having to fire a shot. Update 3:27 pm ET: SWAT, multiple police agencies respond to possible 2nd shooting at FLL pic. twitter.   —   WSVN 7 News (@wsvn) January 6, 2017,  #LIVE Witness says gunman shouted ”I’m not Jewish” repeatedly https:  .   —   ABC7 Eyewitness News (@ABC7) January 6, 2017,  Update 3:05 pm ET: Distraught witness to Ft. Lauderdale shooting: ”I had a perfect picture of him coming and walking up and down and shooting people  …    ” pic. twitter.   —   ABC News (@ABC) January 6, 2017,  Unverified video has surfaced on Twitter that appears to show a chaotic scene inside the baggage claim area. Fort Lauderdale, FL. #Fort #Lauderdale Shooting pic. twitter.   —   MarinaMueller (@MarinaXXX13) January 6, 2017,  Shooting on terminal 4 Fort Lauderdale airport all terminal evacuated pic. twitter.   —   Jorge Curiel H (@jcurielh) January 6, 2017,  KETV 7 reports TSA confirmed that there were reports of more shots fired at Ft.   International. The shots were reportedly fired around 2:30 pm ET. TSA tweeted: Update: Active shooter at #FLL. Shelter in place. Airport closed.  —   TSA (@TSA) January 6, 2017,  Update 2:35 pm ET:   Donald Trump has expressed his concern for the tragedy on Twitter and the White House has released the following statement from NSC Spokesperson Ned Price: The President was apprised this afternoon by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa Monaco of the shooting at Fort Lauderdale airport and will be kept updated as the investigation unfolds. Monitoring the terrible situation in Florida. Just spoke to Governor Scott. Thoughts and prayers for all. Stay safe!  —   Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2017,  Update 2:48 pm ET: Former George W. Bush White House Press Secrectary Ari Fleischer was in the airport when the shots rang out. I’m at the Ft. Lauderdale Airport. Shots have been fired.  Everyone is running.  —   Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) January 6, 2017,  CNN reports that the incident occurred in the baggage claim area of terminal 2. Innocents were rushed out of the building and gathered on the tarmac while law enforcement swept the building. Flights “are still operating from the south side of the airport,” as the shooting incident occurred on the north side. MSNBC quotes Senator Bill Nelson ( ) that the suspected gunman at Fort   International was named Estaban Santiago. Nelson said the gunman “was carrying a military ID. ” Nelson stressed that that does not mean it was the gunman’s actual ID. AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of “Bullets with AWR Hawkins,” a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart. com.