ATLANTA  —   The most arresting vista in town comes into view around a curve on westbound Freedom Parkway, on the periphery of downtown. The road crests just before it intersects Boulevard, at a traffic light that always seems to glow red, as if to allow motorists a minute to savor the panorama before them. The striking thing is not the majesty of the skyline but its accessibility  —   here I am, the city beckons, come and gawk. For from that vantage point, Atlanta just is: a   mecca, the cradle of the civil rights movement, a magnet for transplants, a college football locus, the shimmering capital of the South, and more. All of which are accurate but still do not capture the city’s nuances. “I don’t think people understand Atlanta,” Doug Hertz said. Aside from his schooling at Tulane, in New Orleans, Hertz, 64, has lived here his entire life, which makes him a rarity. The city teems with people who moved here for work, school, family, or just to live nearer to the spinach and sausage meatloaf at Murphy’s. They have contributed to a booming growth  —   the metropolitan area’s diverse population has swelled to more than 5. 7 million, an increase of more than 1. 46 million since 2000  —   that over the past few decades has also shaped Atlanta’s layered relationship with its sports teams. Hertz is a limited partner of the Falcons, who on Sunday will play the New England Patriots in the team’s second Super Bowl appearance since its inception in 1966. They last reached the championship game in the 1998 season, losing to the Denver Broncos, when I was a freshman at Emory University here and, more to the point, was one of those people Hertz was talking about, struggling to understand Atlanta. That September, I joined surprising brigades of Philadelphia Eagles fans invading the Georgia Dome for the Falcons’ home opener. Not even three weeks later, a group of us arrived at Turner Field, maybe two hours before Game 1 of the Atlanta Braves’ baseball playoff series against the Chicago Cubs, and still managed to buy tickets. Six of them. In the same row. My frame of reference was Philadelphia, whose zealous fans in analogous circumstances would never accept such apathy. Season after season, the Braves won their division, destroying the Phillies, and this is how their fans responded? “Are we as rabid and overtly   like Boston or New York? No, we could be better,” Gavin Godfrey, a native Atlanta journalist who chronicles culture and sports  said over lunch in Castleberry Hill, a historic arts district by the Georgia Dome. “But that doesn’t mean we don’t care, and not every town has to be held to that standard. Not every city’s built the same. ” In the Northeast, for instance, with a deep and abiding sports culture that spans generations, and in some cases centuries, there is less competition for sports fans’ loyalty. The emotional connection with college football, for instance, is not as strong as it is with some professional sports. For years, the opposite has been  —   and to a degree, still is  —   true of Atlanta, where on autumn Saturdays fans pack bars and living rooms, or flee for Georgia, Alabama, Auburn, Clemson, South Carolina, Tennessee, all within a   drive. “Most of us, that D. N. A. is not there for professional sports franchises,” Hertz said. The Falcons have built a base of loyalists  —   the City Council president, Ceasar Mitchell, said he drove down to Miami for the Falcons’ last Super Bowl appearance despite not having a ticket  —   but so struggled to pack the Dome that home games were not shown on local television because of the N. F. L. ’s old blackout rule. The team’s middling history has also failed to entice the local residents and persuade the newcomers to come out. The arrival of the quarterback Michael Vick, in 2001, mirrored the city’s spirit at the time  —   ascending, vibrant and   forward  —   and his downfall, for his involvement in an interstate dogfighting ring, created tension, on a racial and cultural level, that lingered for years. Vick’s successor, Matt Ryan, is his antithesis in nearly every possible way  —   be it race, playing style, pedigree or personality. “Some of our fans will always be proud that an   quarterback succeeded,” Hertz said. “What I think has happened over a period of time is a growing appreciation and acceptance in Matt Ryan, and that his style is every bit as spectacular on and off the field. ” The city’s evolution, coupled with an effort by the owner of the Falcons, Arthur Blank, to promote a sense of community around the team, has strengthened its bond with the Falcons. Since 2012, when the Falcons lost in the conference championship game, the Georgia Dome, which seats 71, 250, has achieved at least 98 percent of its   capacity every year. This season’s mark of 98. 2 percent, 15th among the 32 teams and the lowest since 2011, bested that of, among others, the venues for the Giants, Jets, Chiefs and Patriots. As the Braves bolt northwest for a new stadium in Cobb County, a move that has left many fans feeling betrayed, the Falcons remain moored to Atlanta. Next season they move into a new home,   Stadium. “There’s something about the nature of fans here that makes them take pride,” said Molly Slavin, 29, who moved here in 2012 from Illinois. “Although it might not be in a way that translates to sports fandom as seen in other cities. ” Ryan Cameron, 47, an Atlanta radio personality and a   holder since 1998, explained that phenomenon like this: “There are people who will fight you about these Falcons,” he said. “But we’re not trying to prove to you that we’re so crazy. For us, it’s just being loud. We don’t have to brag. It’s Southern charm. ” Still, Atlanta’s gentility, a core virtue, would give way to utter delirium on Sunday  —   and for weeks and months thereafter  —   if the Falcons were to win. This city has been teased before, by those Braves behemoths of the ’90s, by the Falcons in 1998, even by the Hawks, who went   two seasons ago before losing in the conference finals. Counting the futility of its two departed N. H. L. franchises, the Flames and Thrashers, Atlanta can claim only one championship  —   Braves, 1995  —   across a combined 167 completed seasons. Pellom McDaniels, who played the final two of his eight N. F. L. seasons with the Falcons, suggested that a victory would register a psychological impact  —   an acknowledgment of the city’s trajectory, from aspirational to   and mature. During the 1996 Olympics, and in the years that followed, Atlanta seemed eager to convince others that it was cosmopolitan, sophisticated, worth exploring. Even as it grapples with its identity now, reckoning with gentrification and redevelopment forces that are at once eroding and improving neighborhoods, Atlanta projects a different image  —   of comfort and confidence in its direction, whatever that is. “It would be almost like a beacon,” said McDaniels, now the curator of   collections at Emory, said of a potential title. “That we’re working together as a community, and the success the Falcons have experienced is our success  —   that we’re doing something right. ” The term Mitchell used was runway, a point of departure for a nascent sports city that has added a Major League Soccer franchise set to begin play next season. The Falcons are thriving, interest is soaring, and from Mitchell’s perspective, he sure likes the view.