HOUSTON  —   Commissioner Roger Goodell of the N. F. L. declined to take a public stance last week on President Trump’s executive order temporarily banning visits by citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries, even as leaders in the N. B. A. spoke out against the order. But the owner Shahid Khan of the Jacksonville Jaguars made it clear Saturday that he was opposed to the ban and said he had been heartened on Friday when a federal judge in Seattle temporarily blocked  the president’s immigration order. “The bedrock of this country are immigration and really a great separation between church and state,” Mr. Khan, 66, said in Houston, the site of Sunday’s Super Bowl. “Even for the country, it’s not good,” he added, explaining that he thought the order could deny entry to some of “the tens of thousands of people who can contribute to the making of America. ” The only Muslim among the principal owners of N. F. L. teams, Mr. Khan came to the United States from Pakistan in 1967, earned a degree in engineering and went on to own    a   car parts business. He became a United States citizen decades ago. Mr. Khan said it was “kind of a sobering time for somebody like me,” in part because he had expected Mr. Trump to moderate his views on immigrants and Muslims once in office. But Mr. Khan said he hoped the courts would provide a bulwark against the president’s actions against immigrants. He said he understood Mr. Goodell’s decision not to make a public statement, to avoid the appearance of “grandstanding” on the president’s action. Instead, Mr. Khan said, the league should see how the issue plays out in court. “We have to look at it based on what can we do to make a difference,” he said. “And right now, there are enough forces in power and play that we have to see how this thing ends up. ” Mr. Khan has been a vocal supporter of a bill in Jacksonville, Fla. that would expand the city’s human rights ordinance to offer more protection for people who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. Similar laws have passed in other cities in nearly two dozen states. Mr. Khan said that he knew endorsing the bill might alienate some Jaguars fans but that he was willing to risk   cancellations. “I have no remorse over supporting it,” he said of the nondiscrimination bill. Despite his opposition to the president’s immigration policies, Mr. Khan, a registered Republican who said he had voted for Mr. Trump, supports his economic plans, specifically the emphasis on creating manufacturing jobs. Mr. Khan said his company opened or announced plans to build new factories in seven states last year, as well as in China, Mexico and Spain. He has some reservations about Mr. Trump’s approach to the North American Free Trade Agreement, which the United States signed with Canada and Mexico and which took effect in 1994. Consumers over all have benefited from Nafta, Mr. Khan said, and his business could be hurt if the president changes the agreement. But Mr. Khan said he would support changes if they helped create manufacturing jobs in the United States like the ones he had when he arrived a   ago. “In a way, Nafta is like a scrambled egg,” Mr. Khan said. “How do you unscramble an egg? The value chains are so interwoven that it would be very difficult to do that. But government policies force us to look for ways to unscramble it. ”