Universal’s Fate of the Furious revved its way to $1 billion in worldwide gross and stayed atop the domestic chart in its third weekend as romantic comedy How To Be a Latin Lover and Indian film Baahubali 2: The Conclusion both managed to come in ahead of the Tom   Watson tech thriller The Circle at the box office. [Fate of the Furious, the eighth installment in the    franchise and the first since the death of series star Paul Walker last year, pulled in an additional $19. 4 million this weekend to stay number one with a domestic total to date of $192. 7 million, according to the Hollywood Reporter.  The Vin     action flick becomes the 30th movie ever to cross the $1 billion mark after picking up a staggering $867. 6 million overseas to date. Meanwhile, How to Be a Latin Lover  —   starring Salma Hayek and Eugenio Derbez  —   brought in $12 million from just 1, 000 screens to set a new record for Lionsgate’s Hispanic label Pantelion and place second for the weekend. The film  —   which stars Derbez as a   playboy forced to move in with his estranged sister (Hayek)  —   was released in both English and Spanish, and 89 percent of its   audience was Hispanic, according to Deadline. Kristen Bell, Rob Lowe, and Michael Cera  . Latin Lover is expected to expand into more theaters next weekend, when it will serve as some of the only   to Marvel’s superhero juggernaut Guardians of the Galaxy, Vol. 2, which is currently tracking to open at a monstrous $150 million. In third place for the weekend was the Indian film Baahubali 2: The Conclusion, taking $10. 1 million from just 450 theaters to make it the best opening ever for an Indian film in the United States. In its native India, the film reportedly grossed between $  million through its first weekend, which would make it the   debut in its home country, too.   Entertainment’s The Circle, starring Tom Hanks and Emma Watson, was the big loser this weekend, taking in an estimated $9. 3 million to come in fourth place and marking one of the worst openings of Hanks’ career. The Circle  —   directed by James Ponsoldt and based on the novel by Dave Eggers  —   stars Watson as a young employee of a   tech company run by Hanks’ character, which she soon discovers is up to no good. As Deadline reported, the $18 million film scored a premiere this week at the prestigious Tribeca Film Festival, but that may have done more harm than good, as it currently sits at just 18% on ratings aggregator Rotten Tomatoes. Even worse, The Circle earned a D+ CinemaScore, a rare feat and an especially disappointing result for     Hanks. John Boyega, Patton Oswalt and the late Bill Paxton also star. Rounding out this weekend’s top five was 20th Century   Animation’s The Boss Baby, which earned an estimated $9 million to bring its domestic total to $148. 5 million in its fifth week of release.   Follow Daniel Nussbaum on Twitter: @dznussbaum