Rebecca Blumenstein, deputy editor in chief of The Wall Street Journal, has been named a deputy managing editor of The New York Times, one of the top leadership positions at the newspaper. Ms. Blumenstein will become one of the   women in The Times’s newsroom. She will join three other deputy managing editors  —   Janet Elder Clifford Levy, who was promoted last week and Matthew Purdy. In a note to the staff announcing the appointment on Tuesday, Dean Baquet, the executive editor, and Joe Kahn, the managing editor, said that Ms. Blumenstein, 50, would help the newsroom “do all the big things we intend to do in 2017 and beyond. ” In particular, they said, Ms. Blumenstein “will focus on making sure we remain an essential destination for readers interested in business, finance, economics and technology. ” In recent months, the newsroom has had a dearth of female leaders. In September, Susan Chira stepped down as deputy executive editor to write about gender issues, and in December, Lydia Polgreen, an associate masthead editor, left to become the top editor at The Huffington Post. Ms. Blumenstein’s appointment will quite likely be seen as a positive step, though it is notable that The Times named an outsider rather than promoting a woman from within. In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Kahn said it was “absolutely not the case’’ that they could not find a woman within The Times to play a role in newsroom leadership. “This is about Rebecca, who I think has a skill set, a perspective and the experience running a big newsroom that Dean and I and the others at the top of the masthead felt that we needed, to make sure that we’re putting our best foot forward in terms of this digital transition,” Mr. Kahn said. He added that there would be other masthead announcements soon. Ms. Blumenstein was seen as a potential successor to Gerard Baker, the editor in chief of The Journal, and news of her departure was met with surprise and sadness in the Journal newsroom, where she is known for her passion for breaking news. Asked how it felt to lure someone of Ms. Blumenstein’s caliber from a highly respected competitor, Mr. Kahn was circumspect in his reply. “I can only say that I follow and deeply admire The Journal’s coverage, and they’re a fierce competitor and a constant source of concern for us,” Mr. Kahn said. “So of course it’s meaningful to have one of their top editors come and join us. ” In a note to employees, Mr. Baker called Ms. Blumenstein “a peerless exponent and advocate of the very highest quality journalism. ” “She has been a singularly principled and dignified leader and a great mentor and friend to so many colleagues here,” he wrote. The appointment comes as both news organizations work to determine a strategy for an increasingly digital world. Both have initiated sweeping newsroom strategy reviews that have left employees anxious and uncertain about their futures. Last month, The Times released the findings of its review in a report that called for rapid change. Ms. Blumenstein has worked at The Journal since 1995, where she has held numerous senior positions, including managing editor of WSJ. com and international editor. As the newspaper’s China bureau chief, she led her team to a Pulitzer Prize in 2007. China was also where she and Mr. Kahn, who worked in the Beijing bureau for The Times, got to know each other, Mr. Kahn said. “She was unrelenting in pushing her team hard to beat us,” he said.