A Long Island Rail Road train that crashed in Brooklyn on Wednesday was going more than twice the speed limit when it slammed into a train station, injuring more than 100 people, federal investigators said on Thursday. The train was traveling at more than 10 miles per hour when it hit the end of the tracks at Atlantic Terminal, where the speed limit is 5 m. p. h. said Ted Turpin, an investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board. He said that federal officials were investigating the crash and had not yet determined the cause. The train rammed into a bumping block during the morning rush, striking a room beyond the track and causing the first two cars to derail. The accident was reminiscent of a deadly crash in September in which a New Jersey Transit train plowed into Hoboken Terminal, killing a woman and injuring over 100 people. (That train was also traveling over twice the speed limit there when it crashed.) On Thursday, Mr. Turpin said the engineer who was operating the Long Island Rail Road train told investigators he could not remember the crash. “He does recall entering into the station and controlling the speed of the train,” Mr. Turpin said at a news conference. “But then the next thing he realized was after the collision. ” Investigators have not released the engineer’s name, but Mr. Turpin said that he was 50 and had started as an engineer at the railroad in 1999. The engineer had started working around midnight on Tuesday and was nearing the end of his shift at the time of the crash, Mr. Turpin said. In the Hoboken crash, the engineer, Thomas Gallagher, also said he did not remember the crash. His lawyer later said that Mr. Gallagher had an undiagnosed sleep disorder and discovered after the crash that he had severe sleep apnea, which disrupts sleep and may cause excessive daytime sleepiness. The engineer of the Long Island Rail Road train has been tested for drugs, but the results were not available, federal investigators said on Thursday. The engineer told investigators that he was not using his cellphone at the time of the crash. Federal investigators said they planned on Friday to interview a conductor and an assistant conductor who were also on the train. They also intend to interview two railroad employees who witnessed the crash. Mr. Turpin noted that a safety technology, known as positive train control, was not in place on the tracks where the crash happened, even though it was possible that the technology could have slowed the train. Officials from the safety board have long called for railroads to install the system to help prevent train accidents, though Mr. Turpin noted it was not required in train terminals. Nearly two years ago, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority secured a nearly $1 billion loan from the Federal Railroad Administration to install positive train control on the Long Island Rail Road and   Railroad. Officials at the authority are working to meet a 2018 deadline to install the technology.